As the schooner crept across the bay, Hoppy’s gaze ranged along the
low-lying shores of old Cape Cod. The long stretches of white strand
glistened in the sunlight and the tiny hillocks, known as the dunes,
seemed to be engaged in a brave effort to raise themselves above the
tops of the sea pines and the stunted oaks of the neighboring groves.
Billingsgate Point broke the sameness of the coastline and guarded the
harbor of Wellfleet, the only important haven south of Provincetown,
the other landing-places being small creeks and inlets. The high
tide concealed the treacherous flats so much dreaded by the British
commander, and the placid surface of the sea revealed no evidence of
the dangerous sandbars on which many a heedless mariner had come to
grief. Within the encircling arm of the Cape, almost at the point where
it abruptly turns northward, the pilot could see his native village
of Eastham, and the sight added to his bitterness of soul. Cape Cod
towns were then, and, indeed, are at the present day, straggling
places altogether different from the old-world idea of a town. They are
properly townships, each about six miles in length and, on the lower
Cape, from Brewster to Provincetown, the width of each township varies
with the Cape itself, being bounded on either side by the ocean and the
bay, narrowing from about three miles at Orleans to a good deal less
at Truro and Provincetown. There is no crowding of habitations in the
villages. Land is cheap and the people believe in plenty of elbow room.

For the first time since the outbreak of hostilities, Hoppy felt
inclined to coincide with the views of Jared Higgins, Winslow Knowles
and other leaders of the anti-war party. It was easy enough to join in
the patriotic indignation aroused by the acts of the British, but it
was one thing to wax eloquent on the question at Crosby’s and another
to be helpless in the hands of the enemy, forced to obey the orders of
a bully like Dunton and obliged to play a part, the very thought of
which brought the blush of shame to his cheek. There, a few miles away,
were “his young barbarians all at play.” There were his neighbors, the
playmates of his childhood and the companions of his youth and manhood.
Peace, for the moment, hovered over the scene and in the absence of
the warships there appeared nothing likely to disturb the seeming
tranquility of the smiling land. But what of the morrow? The thunder of
the enemy’s guns would bring terror to helpless women and children and
many a happy home might suffer the loss of its brave defenders. Ruined
rooftree and bloody corpse would testify to Britannia’s might, and all
because the cradle-land of his race with cruel arrogance refused to the
youthful and still weak American nation the rights which every free
people must maintain or perish. So absorbed was the captive in these
reflections that he did not notice the approach of Dunton until the
latter’s voice brought him to with a start.

“Taking in the scenery, Mayo? One would think you had never seen it
before by the attention you seem to be giving it.”

Hoppy took no notice of the sneering tone in which this was said. He
had made up his mind to stand a lot from Dunton, but every insult would
be stored in his memory and when the proper time arrived the Englishman
would be amply repaid in a manner thoroughly satisfactory to the
American.

“It looks kind of pretty at this distance, Mr. Dunton.”

“Seems to me you have a queer idea of prettiness, Mayo. A few heaps of
sand and a few miserable patches of trees don’t make a pretty scene, to
my mind. How sensible people can be content to live on such a sandbar
is more than I can understand.”

“Yet, Mr. Dunton, the men who first settled here were Englishmen and
their descendants are still the owners of the land.”

“That may be so, Mayo, but I have heard the first English in these
parts were a set of cranks who left England because they could not get
along with their own people.”

“Then there must be quite a lot of that crankiness left in the blood,”
answered Hoppy slyly. “The present inhabitants have no great welcome
for their friends from the other side.”

“Any Englishman who would leave his own country for this savage place
must have something wrong with him. You have no aristocracy here,
Mayo, and any country without an aristocracy can never rank as a great
nation. What would England be without her aristocracy?”

Hoppy was surprised to find Dunton in such a conversational mood and
gave him every encouragement to talk.

“What good does an aristocracy do for England, Mr. Dunton?”

“Of course you Yankees can’t be expected to understand the matter,
Mayo; but, for one thing, will you tell me how England could officer
her army and navy unless she had an aristocracy to furnish the men for
the positions?”

“I certainly can’t answer that question, Mr. Dunton, knowing so very
little about your ways over there, but I have heard Uncle Jabez Rich
say that a title does not make a man an aristocrat.”