“Wot do I say to it, eh? Wot I say is this: If that son of a gun aft
don’t come on deck an’ ketch us, I’d like to jine you all right!”

“No fear of that, Jackson; he won’t come on deck until I call him. Help
yourself!”

“After you, mate; I ain’t forgot my manners.”

“Here’s luck, Jackson!”

“Same to you, my hearty, an’ many of ’em!”

Then the gallant tar took his turn at the flask. Lovingly he held the
generous liquor to his lips and quenched his thirst with a long drink.

“Blest if it ain’t mighty good of you, mate!” said Jackson gratefully.
“That fellow aft don’t know how to treat men, an’ there’s a lot o’
growlin’ among the crew.”

“That’s a wonder, Jackson, and there’s no reason why he should be
stingy about the grog. There’s enough of it aboard.”

“Then he’s a d----d liar!” hissed Jackson. “He sent word to the focsle
that the supply o’ rum aboard was small an’ that the allowance must be
cut down!”

“Of course, Jackson, it isn’t my place to interfere, and perhaps I was
wrong in mentioning the matter?”

“Oh, don’t you fret about your doin’ wrong, mate. You’ve done right,
an’ by the Lord Harry, when I tell some o’ them about his meanness an’
lyin’, there’ll be hell to pay! There’s old Bill Brown will be hoppin’
about it. Only yesterday, old Bill says to me: ‘Damme,’ says Bill,
‘I’ve been threatenin’ to desert ever since we kem on this here station
but I’ve been held back ’cause I hated to leave the old flag. But,
by G----,’ (Bill’s a orful swearer) ‘if this feller deals out short
allowance o’ grog, I’m finished with King George!’”

“It’s a shame, Jackson. Don’t tell any of the men that I have given you
a drink. Dunton would be sure to hear of it and that would be the end
of the game. I know where there’s a good supply stowed away and I can
get at it; so, if you keep the matter to yourself, I may be able to let
you have a good drink occasionally.”

“All right, my hearty; you can trust me with a secret. Fact of it is,
mate, the crew don’t think anything the worse o’ you for bein’ a Yank.
They know Dunton’s down on you, but he’s obliged to keep a civil tongue
just now. Old Dick Raggett has given him orders to treat you decent.”

“I thought there was something strange about his civility, Jackson, and
I’m much obliged to you for telling me the reason. What do you say to
another swallow?”

Jackson had no objection at all, so he took a copious draught which put
him in high spirits.

Hoppy again warned him to be silent about the rum and went aft.

The stillness of the atmosphere continued and the night was intensely
dark. From his station Hoppy closely watched the western sky. The
deluge would soon be upon them and already he noticed faint streaks
of lightning near the horizon. Everything seemed to favor him. He had
secured the goodwill of Jackson and would be able to use him when the
right moment arrived. The watch officers, also seeing the lightning,
asked him if he thought it advisable to call Dunton’s attention to it,
but Hoppy replied that his orders were not to call the commander until
there were signs of a breeze.

“It’s no use waking him, Mr. Jenkins. If we’re going to run for better
holding ground we must wait for wind, and we shan’t have any for some
time yet.”

“Very well, Mayo; but if a sudden squall should strike us, Mr. Dunton
won’t be pleased to be below.”

“There will be no sudden squall, Mr. Jenkins. These summer tempests
don’t come up like that. The lightning is far off yet and, anyway, we
can’t get any steerage way on her until we get some wind.”

This appeared to satisfy the young men and they left Hoppy to his
cogitations.

When half an hour had passed, Dunton came on deck. He was evidently ill
at ease and could not remain below. His eye caught the gleaming shafts
of lightning to the westward and he knew that the tempest predicted by
the pilot would be a furious one.

“The wind still seems to be shy, Mayo?”

“Oh, it’s coming, all right, Mr. Dunton, but you won’t feel it for
another hour. The lightning still hugs the horizon.”