Hoppy laughed. “Excuse me for laughing, Captain Raggett, but if you
are thinking of sailing the ‘Spencer’ in those waters, you run a fine
chance of losing your ship!”

“How near could the ‘Spencer’ approach?” asked Raggett.

“Not within a mile of the outer bar,” answered Hoppy promptly.

Raggett’s disappointment was apparent. “But the chart gives from two to
ten fathoms?”

“Well, Captain Raggett, that may be, and I don’t deny that it is so in
spots, but there’s a lot of shoal places, though they may be known only
to the local pilots. It’s no place for a big ship like yours; though,
of course, you are the best judge of that. However, you can easily
settle the matter to your own satisfaction by surveying the place.”

“I may have to do that,” said Raggett as he gave Hoppy a significant
look.

“Now,” continued Raggett, “there’s Orleans lying to the west of
Eastham, and Brewster still further west. Do the same conditions exist
in the flats and sandbars off those townships?”

“Yes, captain, those places are just as dangerous for large craft.”

“Thank you. The information which I have received from others
practically coincides with what you have said, though you seem to
exaggerate the dangers of the localities. However, I shall have to
verify the soundings, and I think I have the proper man for the work.”
Again he gave Hoppy a meaning look.

Hoppy knew full well what Raggett meant. He was, then, expected to
act as pilot for the British and help them to destroy the lives
and property of his kinsmen and neighbors! It required all his
selfpossession to keep his outraged feelings in check, but he realized
that it would be worse than useless to let Raggett suspect what he
thought of the proposition, so he pretended ignorance of the British
commander’s purpose.

“It shouldn’t be hard for you to find a good man for the work in your
ship’s company, Captain Raggett. Your tenders have been cruising in
these waters for quite a long time and I suppose they know their way
about.”

Raggett smiled. “I’m afraid,” he said, “that my men have become
better acquainted with the hospitalities of Provincetown than with
the sandbars and shoals of the bay. As you are doubtless aware, the
operations on this station have been more like a picnic than warfare
up to the present. I think I told you that such is the opinion of some
very important personages in London, and, looking at the matter calmly,
I am inclined to agree with their views. To be perfectly frank with
you, men, I am going to state the terms of your ransom. You will not
find them harsh. For the sum of three hundred dollars I agree to let
you have your whaleboat. That’s a good bargain for you, isn’t it?”

“Three hundred dollars!” exclaimed Captain Knowles. “Why, Captain
Raggett, where are we to get all that money? We haven’t three hundred
cents in our possession!”

“That’s more than the boat and cargo are worth,” put in Hoppy.

“I’m afraid that’s the best I can do for you,” replied Raggett. “It is
not much money, considered as prize-money to be distributed among a
large number of men.”

“But how are we to raise the money, captain? We have no means of
communicating with the shore, and even if we had, we should hesitate
about asking our hard-pressed friends in Eastham to pay it. Money is
pretty scarce nowadays.” Captain Knowles looked despairingly at his
fellow-prisoner as he said this.

“You’re right, Win,” assented Hoppy; “there are few in Eastham now who
have three hundred dollars to spare. There has been no steady business
doing since this war commenced and it’s been hard work to collect
taxes, even.”

“Have you no friends in Boston?” asked Raggett.

“Why, yes, we have some good friends in Boston, I’m glad to say,”
responded Win; “but what’s the good of that in our present position?
We can’t get close enough to ask them, even if we were sure to get the
money.”

“Oh, that’s easily managed. If I arrange for your journey to Boston,
Captain Knowles, will you undertake to raise the money from your
friends there and return to this ship with it on a prearranged date?”

This was presenting a new view of the situation. Neither of the
prisoners was prepared for it, and some moments elapsed before a reply
was given. Then a sudden thought flashed across Hoppy’s mind.