XV.

Quits!


There was no rest that night for the men on board the schooner. The
gale continued with unabated fury, momentarily threatening destruction
to the vessel, and Dunton knew that if the cable broke all hands would
be required at once to try and work her off the Wellfleet shore, which
was under their lee. The darkness and the absence of guiding lights on
the land made him uncertain of his position, though a cast of the lead
showed a safe depth of water.

To add to his discomfort, Dunton was aware that, through an oversight,
the schooner had only one large anchor to depend on. It may be said
that Hoppy Mayo also knew that there was but one anchor fit for the
occasion, but, for reasons of his own, he suffered no anxiety on that
point.

The pilot felt that the supreme hour of his life was at hand. He had
faith in himself and in the justness of his cause. He refused to
entertain the thought that the Arbiter of all things would decide
against him in his struggle with his foes; but, whatever the outcome,
he was determined to meet the end undauntedly as became a true American
sailor.

Dunton shouted through the storm:

“It will be high water at two o’clock, Mayo; there may be a change of
weather on the ebb?”

“I hope so, Mr. Dunton, and I believe there will be some abatement of
the wind at half tide. This storm seems to be a double-decker; that
last crash of thunder shows there’s more behind it.”

Then a big wave struck the vessel and she shivered at the blow. Some
of the hands were thrown on the deck and narrowly escaped being washed
overboard.

“By George, Mr. Dunton!” cried Hoppy, “that was a bad one! It’s a
wonder to me how that cable stands the strain. Shouldn’t be surprised
if it went under another blow like that last one!”

The same thought was in Dunton’s mind and he could not conceal his
anxiety.

“I suppose you know, Mayo, that we haven’t another anchor fit to hold
her in this weather?”

“By the Lord! you don’t say so? Then it’s a mighty poor show if we lose
this one.”

“Is there no creek or small harbor on this cursed coast where we could
take refuge?”

Hoppy expected the question and he was prepared with an answer. After a
pause he said:

“Well, Mr. Dunton, there’s nothing to leeward that you could call a
harbor, but there’s a small inlet to the south of us and if the cable
snaps our only chance will be to run for it.”

“But how are you to find it in this darkness?”

“It will soon be dawn, Mr. Dunton; in about an hour’s time, I should
say. If we’re lucky enough to hold on till then we may make it. Once
over the outer bar we shall be safe.”

Dunton had to be satisfied with this, though the prospect was a poor
one. He asked Hoppy how they were to moor the schooner in case they
lost the heavy anchor? The pilot told him that there would be smooth
water inside the outer bar and that a light anchor would do.

Sea after sea kept pounding the vessel. As the time was near for
decisive action, Hoppy suggested to Dunton that it would be well to pay
out a few more fathoms of cable.

“It will ease her a bit, Mr. Dunton; I’ll make my way forward and see
that it runs out all right.”

Dunton agreed. Hoppy groped his way to the bow where he crouched
unobserved in the gloom. Dunton gave the order to pay out, but just
then a curious thing happened. Hoppy drew his keen knife from its
sheath and slashed the stout rope in such a manner that he knew it
would soon part. On his way aft he managed to have a few words with
Jackson.

The night was drawing to a close. The first faint streaks of dawn were
appearing and the pilot drew Dunton’s attention to them: