“Halt!” cried the American.

Dunton faced him. The officer was no coward, but the suddenness of the
whole thing was disconcerting and he was puzzled how to proceed.

“This vessel is American property, Dunton; she now reverts to her
rightful owners!”

Dunton did not reply. He looked at Jenkins and the latter disappeared
into the cabin. Hoppy laughed mockingly as the junior reappeared
looking decidedly crestfallen.

“Your pistols are not in your writing case, sir.”

This was too much for Dunton. His features were distorted with passion
and he hurled a volley of vile language at the American.

“Avast there, you swab!” roared Hoppy; “another man so near death as
you are would be saying his prayers instead of using filthy talk!”

“All hands, ahoy!” screamed Dunton.

“Aye, you may call them, my bold fellow, but they couldn’t hear even
Gabriel’s trumpet now!”

And so it was. Hoppy had told Jackson where to find the cask of rum in
the hold and that gallant seaman had tapped it with a gimlet, inviting
his messmates to partake, which they did with gusto. They were worn
out from the long vigil through the night and copious libations of the
fiery liquor soon stupefied them. They lay like dead men in the hold.

The baffled officer turned on his subordinates, “Where are your
pistols?” he demanded.

“They can’t be found, sir,” answered Jenkins.

Then Hoppy enlightened him. “You need not worry about your pistols,
Dunton; they are in safe keeping. And now, I’m going to be busy for a
few minutes and I want you to be a good boy until I have time to attend
to your troubles.”

Near the mainmast there was a large chest containing arms. It was
locked, but Hoppy smashed it open with an axe and started to throw
the muskets and cutlasses overboard. This made Dunton almost insanely
furious. Calling on his officers to help he rushed at Hoppy who whipped
out a pistol which he leveled at the advancing Englishman.

“Another step and you are a dead man!” he thundered. “And you, Jenkins
and Thomson, stand back! You are decent fellows and I don’t want to
kill you, but, by the Almighty, if you don’t stay quiet, I’ll have you
all three buried in Yankee soil tomorrow!”

The assailants drew back. Hoppy opened his jacket and displayed an
array of pistols stuck in his belt.

“These are your pistols,” said he, “and I may tell you later how I got
them; but, for the present, you must be satisfied to know that they are
all loaded and that makes more than a bullet apiece for you. If you
don’t believe me, watch this!”

He fired and the bullet struck the deck at Dunton’s feet.

“I can afford to waste one shot,” he continued, “but it is the only one
that will be wasted if you don’t keep quiet!”

He then finished the work of throwing the arms into the sea.

“That’s a good job satisfactorily done. Now I have a few words to say,
Dunton, and when you hear them you will know how we stand. You and your
men are my prisoners. The schooner is my prize. I have no desire to
treat you harshly, though you must feel that I owe you nothing in the
way of civility. My people, as you can see, are now in force on the
beach, and when the flats are dry, as they will be in a short time,
I shall deliver you to the proper authorities in Eastham. However, I
want you to know that I have had no help from any of your men in this
business. They obliged me by getting drunk, and you have yourself to
blame for that. If you hadn’t defrauded them of their proper allowance
of grog they might be sober now! Captain Raggett treated me decently
and for his sake I shall see that you have nothing to complain of
ashore. Now you understand?”

“You’re a d----d traitor and you’ll suffer for this when the frigate
returns!” cried Dunton venomously.

“That reminds me, Dunton, of what you said when we had that little
conversation at Provincetown. ‘No back talk from prisoners,’ I think
you remarked? As to being a traitor,” here the American’s eyes flashed
and his tone became hard, “well, that’s according to the way you look
at it. A traitor to what? Why, man, you show your stupidity by saying
so! You thought because I made no fuss about becoming your pilot that
you had me on your side! When I consented, Dunton, it was with the firm
intention that this schooner and all on board should find a resting
place at the bottom of Cape Cod bay if I found no other way out. You
should thank God for the storm; it surely saved your lives! It was a
case of one man against twenty-three and the one man had only his wits
to depend on--but he won! One Yankee licked twenty-three Britishers!
How will that news be received on the ‘Spencer,’ Dunton? There, I
have said enough for the present and I’m not going to gloat over your
defeat.”