IX.

The Prisoners Talk It Over.


Before the prisoners retired to their quarters that night they
discussed the situation earnestly. Hoppy had no doubt whatever that
Raggett intended to use him as the “proper man” for the work of
piloting the British tenders and barges in the shallow waters of the
bay. He told his companion in misfortune that there was no use in
outwardly resisting the plans of the British commander.

“It’s just like this, Win: Raggett knows that you will have no
difficulty in getting that three hundred dollars in Boston and that you
cannot put forward any excuses to the contrary. I don’t think he would
die of a broken heart if you never turned up with the money. What’s
such a small amount divided among his crew?”

“It certainly doesn’t look very large, Hoppy, but when he keeps adding
to it all the time the total will amount to something. He has started
on his new policy, and ’tis hard to tell where it will all end. You
know what we heard about his intention to demand tribute from the
towns?”

“Supposing the towns refuse to pay tribute, what then?”

“Well, Hoppy, I think that’s rather a foolish question. Why, man, what
can the unfortunate towns do but pay? You don’t mean to tell me that
they can defy the whole British squadron, do you?”

“Why not?” demanded Hoppy fiercely. “Can’t you see how the thing
stands? Raggett won’t take his ship into the shallow waters. He has no
proper knowledge of the conditions just outside the bars, and if you
were taking any notice you might have heard me purposely exaggerate the
danger of trusting to his charts. He won’t take any chances of getting
stranded, I can tell you, and he will keep at a safe distance. Then, if
he intends to attack the villages he must depend on his barges to land
his forces.”

“And what’s to prevent him from doing that?”

“His common sense, man. Supposing he decides to land a strong force,
and it must be pretty strong if our people put up any sort of a fight,
he must do so at high water. Well, the flats extend for more than a
mile to seaward and the landing party must make pretty good use of the
time to be able to get away safely before the ebb catches the boats on
the flats. Raggett has only about three hundred men on the ‘Spencer,’
and the ‘Nymph’ and the ‘Bulwark’ are not likely to leave their own
stations to assist him, unless in case of great need. His landing party
might number two hundred fighting men, but I doubt it. That would leave
his ship pretty shorthanded in case of disaster to the barges. And why
shouldn’t they meet disaster? Are the men of Cape Cod going to imitate
old Samoset and say once again ‘Welcome, Englishmen!’? I don’t believe
it!”

“But you must remember, Hoppy, that the people are very poorly equipped
for a fight against the well-armed enemy?”

“I know that; but, as I pointed out just now, the flats will more than
compensate for the difference in that way. There is too much risk about
landing a large force and Raggett will not take it. If Eastham, Orleans
and Brewster join forces to repel the invaders they will surely beat
them.”

“I wish I could look at it in your way, Hoppy, but I can’t. The
‘Spencer’ could get close enough to destroy the salt works, anyway.”

“The salt works be damned! Good God, man! this is war, and something
has to go. Her artillery can’t do very much damage to the town which,
after all, is only a sparsely settled place. She will be too far off
shore for the range, though, of course, she’s bound to do some injury
to property. I tell you, Win, that Raggett will make a big show but he
will not weaken his ship by detailing two-thirds of his crew for shore
work. When he decides on doing it he will take care to have the other
ships with him.”

Captain Knowles was a man of tried courage. He would not be found
wanting when the test came, but his best judgment would not allow
him to take Hoppy’s view of the case. There was great truth in much
of Hoppy’s summing up, but to Win it appeared incredible that the
outcome of any clash of arms could be otherwise than disastrous to the
Americans.

“It’s all very well to say the salt works be damned, Hoppy, but I can
tell you the owners of the works won’t let their property be destroyed
if they can save it by paying a reasonable sum for immunity. Then, it’s
not quite certain that Brewster and Orleans would be able to do much
for Eastham.”

“Brewster has an artillery company, though it’s not very well
organized. Still, it has two pieces and they could be made useful if
properly handled. There’s one thing I’m very sure of; Orleans will put
up a good fight if the British attack that town.”