“Now,” he continued, “I feel somewhat interested in these people of
Cape Cod, and you may help me to understand them better. I notice your
friends, Captains Knowles and Mayo, speak excellent English for men in
their station of life?”

“That is a characteristic of the people, Captain Raggett. The first
settlers were men of unusual intelligence and, when you consider the
age in which they lived, of some education. They were keen students
of the Bible; in fact, it was their only book and their language was
modeled on its style. Then, their ministers were men of great learning
and they exercised much influence in secular as well as in religious
affairs. Their word was law with their flocks and it is not improbable
that the people paid them the compliment of imitation in their habit of
conversing in good English.”

“Why did these first settlers leave England?”

“The primary reason was that their religious belief was antagonistic to
the established church. They did not believe in the establishment, and
they formed a society for the advancement of their own ideas. For this
they were persecuted and fled to Holland where, after a residence of
some years, they decided to cross the ocean in search of a new home.”

“Oh, they were for freedom of conscience, eh? Their descendants
don’t follow them in that respect, Fotheringay. Why, in this very
town of Provincetown there is at present open war between the
Congregationalists and the Methodists! The Methodists are newcomers,
and the adherents of the old order resent their presence. Are they not
practising here the tactics against which their forefathers rebelled in
England?”

The humor of the situation appealed to the lieutenant and he laughingly
answered:

“That, indeed, seems to be the case, sir. It must certainly be admitted
that the era of perfect religious toleration has not yet arrived.
However, we English are not in a position to throw stones at the Cape
Codders. Our own laws dealing with his majesty’s Catholic subjects are
no credit to our enlightenment.”

“I quite agree with you, Fotheringay, and I hope we may live to see the
day when every man can freely worship God as his conscience dictates.
Creeds should matter little when a common danger threatens a people. I
must say, however, that I am surprised to learn of intolerance in this
young land of America. In old Europe we are the slaves of tradition and
suspicion, and reform is slow, but the same thing does not apply to the
New World where there’s a chance for all to start on the same level.”

After some further conversation of this kind, they resumed the
discussion of the prospective operations.

“I shall have to ask tribute from all the towns, and I don’t mean to
be hard on them; but they must pay, if only as evidence to convince
London that we are doing something. I know they are in a bad state
financially but that’s their lookout.”

“In case they refuse, Captain Raggett, what are you going to do?”

Captain Raggett’s expression hardened. “They dare not refuse,
Fotheringay. The salt works along the shore can easily be destroyed
by our guns, and as salt-making is the principal industry the people
will think a long time before they invite its destruction. We can
throw shots into the villages, but I shall not resort to such extreme
measures until I am forced to do so.”

“Brewster has an artillery company, I understand, sir, and it may do
some damage to a landing party?”

“There will be no landing party, Fotheringay, unless we get
reinforcements. I have been considering that point and I have come to
the conclusion that these accursed flats are the greatest ally of the
Cape Codders. Now, I have made up my mind to send the schooner on a
surveying cruise in the bay and I purpose to have your friend Mayo act
as pilot. Dunton will be the officer in charge of the schooner.”

“I foresee trouble, Captain Raggett. Dunton heartily hates all
Americans and there is sure to be a clash. You know Dunton’s surly
disposition?”

“Yes; but he’s a good man in his place. He’s sour because so many
younger men have got ahead of him in the service. I don’t admire his
surliness, but he’s just the man I want for this surveying business.
The fact that he has got a Yankee pilot will make him suspicious, and
with such a shrewd antagonist as Mayo he will require to be on the
alert. I look for good results from the expedition.”

“It will take some time to survey so much shore line.”

“Oh, there’s no hurry about it. However, it should not take over a
week if the weather continues fine. I intend to take the frigate for
a practice cruise off Boston, but with a crew of about twenty Dunton
should be able to protect himself during my absence.”