Anne's face became suddenly grave. "My name isn't nearly as important
as Gale's message," she said. "Come."

The library exuded a faint mustiness. There were cobwebs around
the ceiling. Shadows seemed to follow them as they crossed to the
micro-film cabinets which filled every inch of wall space on three
sides of the room. On the fourth side a six foot screen, surmounted by
a cold light bulb, faced a micro-film projector on a circular metal
stand.

In utter silence Anne removed a small gleaming key from her smock,
and unlocked one of the cabinets. Sheldon watched her, a breathless
expectancy surging up through him.

Perspiration was beading his forehead when she turned abruptly and
handed him a tiny sealed roll of micro-film.

"Break the seal and thread the film into the projector," she urged.
"Hurry!"

Sheldon looked at her. "Is this Gale's message?"

Anne nodded. "Yes. Oh, make haste. They shun the library, but your
presence here may serve to arouse their curiosity. It may even do more."

Sheldon nodded grimly, and moved toward the projector. His hands shook
as he broke the seal and threaded the serrated end of the film into
the instrument. A moment later he was standing with his arm about the
girl's shoulder, staring at the screen. His brain felt strangely cold,
as though icy currents were swirling around and around inside his head.

For an instant there was only a dull flickering. Then a bright, steady
glow filled the screen, and Gale's face came sharply into view.

Sheldon ceased to breathe.

The Gale who looked out at him from the glow was a much older Gale than
he had known. Older, and shockingly changed, for his face was haggard
with torment, his eyes so deeply sunken they seemed more like holes in
a skull than the eyes of a living man whose thoughts had once moved in
an orbit of immense kindliness and calm grandeur.

Suddenly he was speaking.

"I knew you'd come back, Roger. Not even the variable nature of time
can prevent my saying to you: I knew you'd come back!"

The tight lips relaxed a little and a smile spread over the tired old
face. "Remarkable, isn't it? I'm gone, but we're really meeting again,
lad. Just as surely as though I were standing here talking to you in
the flesh."

Gale's face grew suddenly grave again. "I wanted to tell you, Roger.
Believe me, I did. But the others wouldn't have it. It's no light
matter to deprive a man of his world by exposing him to a time lag of
well over a century."

Sheldon cried out.

"We decided not to tell you the six months you'd be gone would be a
hundred and ten years here. Thought you might not be able to endure the
thought of not aging at all while we aged normally in normal space.
So we didn't tell you just how accurately we'd measured the lag by
checking your initial velocity against the limiting velocity of light.
Harsley and Wells did the checking, lad. Their computations would be
incomprehensible to you, but Harsley, as you know, is not in the habit
of making mistakes when he's working with a Tov-calculator. Wells would
have caught him up if he had."

For an instant Gale paused to smile briefly. There seemed to be small
explosions in his sunken eyes as he continued.

"You'll be traveling through a complete arc on the Lorentz scale--an
arc which will carry you into non-Euclidean space. You'll return a
century from now, Roger. You'll pass through a segment of the continuum
looped back on itself--a very small temporal-spatial warp as warps go,
but large enough to lop off a hundred and ten years in our space."

For an instant there was a roaring in Sheldon's ears. A dizziness swept
over him, blurring his faculties and causing the image on the screen
to waver and recede. For an instant he heard only an unintelligible
jumble of syllables, saw only a vague splotch of light where Gale's
face had been. Then his vision grew sharp again, and Gale's words came
clearly.

"The earliest atomic experiments did not alter human genes as far as we
could determine. Certainly uranium fission didn't, but--as you know,
Roger, we were releasing energies up and down the scale of matter."

"That's what you said!" Anne cried. "He's repeating your very words,
Roger."