The girl shook her head. "I can't tell you that. We have lost track
of the years. Since Gale died there have been fewer and fewer of us.
Mother was like me, and the man to whom she was wed. But they are not
alive now. I am the last."

She turned abruptly and pointed to the immobile, staring little figures
on the bench,

"These are my aunt's children."

Sheldon felt a coldness start up his spine.

"Children!" he cried, in horror.

"They are human mutants," the girl said, simply. "Zombie mutants, the
micro-films call them. They can obey when spoken to, but they cannot
speak or act of their own free will. But the pituitary mutants are far
more primitive, really. Giganticism. Atavistic giganticism. It's all
very clearly explained in the micro-films. Pituitary giants they are,
with the physical characteristics of primitives. Dawn men."

Sheldon rubbed his burning brow.

"If I had returned a hundred years in the future what you say would
not have seemed incredible," he muttered, dazedly. "The radiations
produced by atomic fission on an almost undreamed of scale might alter
human genes, yes. Alter the microscopic carriers of human inheritance,
stunting the body's growth or reversing the course of human evolution."

"Yes, yes," the girl said. "That is exactly what happened. I have what
mother called the equivalent of a modern scientific education. That's
why I understand so much, and so little. There are gaps. Gale destroyed
many of the films. There were things he did not want even my mother's
mother to know."

"We were releasing energies up and down the scale of matter," Sheldon
said, slowly. "Disrupting every known element and its isotope.
Controlling the chain reactions, of course, using every safeguard. But
the radiations which escaped might well have given rise to mutations on
the biological scale."

He turned and glanced at the little figures on the bench.

"Infantile type with schizophrenic mentalities." Sheldon drew a quick
breath. "Or primitive types with thick, coarse features. The mechanism
of evolutionary retrogression lies dormant in all of us. A disease like
acromegaly will touch it off, causing man to regress to the brute. An
alteration in human genes before birth might very well result in a more
deep-seated primitiveness. Acromegaliacs only regress physically."

A faint smile hovered for an instant on the girl's pale lips.

"You're talking like a micro-film lecturer," she said. "You have the
scientific temperament, that's plain."

"Yes," Sheldon said. "Yes, I have. If the world fell on me, I'd want to
know how it happened. I'd stop and talk about it."

"I'm like that too, a little," the girl said.

A sadness crept into her gaze. "I do not fear them," she said. "I have
only compassion for them. I nurse them when they are ill, just as I
feed these helpless little ones. And in so far as they are capable of
affection, they have for me a certain tenderness."

She started and drew back, as though frightened by the look which had
come into Sheldon's face.

"If I had returned a century from now I might have believed you," he
said. "But I left the station exactly six months ago."

"You left the Station?" The girl stared at him. "What is your name?"

"Roger Sheldon."

"You made the first attempt ever made by man to conquer the utter black
night of space!" The girl's eyes had begun to shine. "Yes, yes. There
are micro-film recordings of your ship taking off. Long, long ago, in
the dawn. Gale--Gale left a message for you. It was his wish that it be
given to you on your return, if you ever did return. I have it safely
locked away. Mother made me promise I would not break the seal."

Her hands were suddenly warm about his, tightening, drawing him toward
the door.

"Oh, it's unbelievable! I'm glad now I didn't project the recording. I
was tempted to. It was a torture not to. But somehow I could not. I'm
funny that way."

Funny that way! It was the first time the girl had used a colloquial
expression. Oddly enough, it made her seem more akin, in some strange
way closer to him.