She stood before the mirror, hardly daring to breathe.

"Oh God," Julian whispered. He stood in a corner of the room, and his
eyes were narrowed and his hands were gripped together. "I knew I was
a genius. But this--this is something else! What have I done? Statues
turned to living beauty. What in the name of God is this?"

"I'm beautiful," she said.

"Yes, yes," he said thickly. "Yes--"

"As beautiful as Gloria."

"Whoever she is, yes, yes--"

"He will love me."

"I love you, my dear, I love you," he whispered again and again.

A great calm came over her. A great calm and a great chill. She felt
uneasy because she felt so wonderful, too wonderful, too uneasy, as if
she might feel too deeply and something inside would break.

She felt Julian's hand on her and he was turning her around. "I must
kiss you," he said. "I must kiss you. I love you."

"Yes," she smiled. "You may kiss me."

She imagined it was Kelsey kissing her. Kelsey's arms were around her
neck, and she was longing for the face of Kelsey. She moved her lips
over his forehead and his cheeks until she felt the moistness of his
mouth. She saw the unsettled look in Julian's face and the sweat on his
upper lip. It was her first kiss, and it was Kelsey she kissed.

Julian stepped back and touched his lips. He shook his head and jerked
his face nervously toward the door.

He stared into her eyes. His fingers ran over her face. "Now I see
it," he whispered hoarsely. "Now I see it. It was there before, before
I ever touched you. It was in your eyes. I've always known that. I've
known that no one creates beauty out of pastes and tape and foam rubber
and false hair."

"I must go now," she said. "I must hurry."

"That's right, that's very right. You've got to go out of here, out of
my sight and out of my mind!"

"Do I feel real?"

"My God! There's this light--that is what you feel--the light! Listen,
listen to me whoever, whatever, you are. Listen. What's happening?
You're more real than the woman who invites me to her apartment and
assures me with insipid smiles and phony gestures that she is real.
What's real? You're real--but you can't be real!"

He turned away from her and leaned against the wall. There was a catch
in his voice, and she could see the throbbing in the side of his neck.
"You had better go now. And tomorrow I won't remember you. I'm probably
going crazy. Beginning to believe in my own pitiful wishes. Everyone
I know--all of them--shells of phony beauty, something painted on,
something stuck on the outside. Nothing real, nothing real at all. And
what do I do--dream? Dream of somehow bringing real beauty back. But it
never comes back! Beauty comes from inside. I cannot paste it onto the
outside of a hollow shell and make beauty come alive!"

"Julian--"

He blinked at her, as though startled and afraid. "What has happened
with you? How many like you are there? No, I can't start believing such
an incredible thing. I'd be lost. Get out! Get out!"

She touched his shoulder. "Goodbye," she said softly. "I know what
loneliness is."

When he turned to her again there were tears in his eyes. He whispered,
"I believe you do--you really do. But how could it be? How could you
have inside of you what we humans are losing?"

She sat in the Commutor Jet, returning to Master Kelsey. She knew that
looking like a beautiful woman was not quite enough. She had to know
the right things to say. She felt that she did know all the correct
retorts, quips, the polite gestures and nuances and intonations that
made one innocuously acceptable. She had watched the Tevee for years
as they explained how to win people and influence the right friends,
and gain the maximum amount of response from the group, from love, from
whoever was joining their smile with yours.

She had learned all the controversial things that must never be talked
about, and all the popular immediate things that should be talked
about incessantly. But she felt an intense need for rehearsal. This
had to be successful. She had committed herself. She could not fail.
Failure meant a return to the factory and the final fatal twist of
the thermostat. It would not be murder, for they were ignorant of the
existence of a robot's soul. And she didn't care about the risk. She
would feel her love for Kelsey returned; she would feel his arms,
his lips, his love. Let them, whoever they were, worry about the
disappearance of a drab domestic named Alice.