Helen made no direct answer, but continued her tale, and her cousin
accepted her silence for the proverbial consent.

"At length we had a grand ball, my first and only dance. To every one's
amazement, Mr. Lisle appeared in irreproachable evening dress, and
danced nearly the whole evening."

"With _you_, of course?"

"No; with a married lady, a Mrs. Durand."

"Well, I must say, that I think that was rather peculiar."

"Oh! but I found out afterwards that they had known each other as
children, and been old playmates and friends. I confess I was angry,
and—very, well—I suppose jealous. Afterwards I danced the last
waltz with him, almost in spite of myself, and when it was over we
walked up the island in the moonlight. Dido," suddenly raising her
eyes to her cousin's, "I shall never forget that night if I live to
be a hundred! The look of the sea, the stillness, the fire-flies, and
the moon, bright as day, casting sharp shadows of palms, and cactus
plants, across our path. I shut my eyes, and I can see it _now_. Then
we talked. He told me that he was going away the next day—a trip to
the Nicobars. He also told me that he understood that I was going to
be married to Mr. Quentin, whom you know I detest,—and offered me his
congratulations! Of course I denied this indignantly, and he seemed
positively not inclined to believe me at first, and then—and then—he
asked me. He told me—I need not go on—Dido, _you_ understand the
rest!"

"And am I to understand that you said 'Yes'?"

"I believe so."

"You had no idea who he really was all the time?"

"I knew he was a gentleman, that he was well educated, and well bred;
like every one else, I thought he was poor, but that made no difference
to me."

"You never dreamt that he was the Honourable Gilbert Lisle, with about
twelve thousand a year?"

"Never! He was commencing to tell me something, when Mrs. Creery
swooped down upon us, and carried me off."

"Hateful old woman! And afterwards?"

"We never had an opportunity of speaking till the very last moment. He
followed me towards our bungalow, and said he would come over and see
papa early the next morning, before he sailed if possible. If not to
look for him in six weeks time,—and to be sure not to forget him."

"Well?" ejaculated her listener breathlessly.

"That was nearly two years ago.—I have never seen him since."

"What?" cried Dido, jumping to her feet, and tossing her new hat
passionately down on the sofa. "And you believe that _that_ man was
Gilbert Lisle. He was nothing of the kind! Mrs. Creery and Miss Caggett
were perfectly right. He was an impostor. He and the real Mr. Lisle are
as different as night from day!"

"But Mr. Lisle was in the Andamans at that time. Mrs. Durand, who was
a great friend of mine, could not be mistaken—it was she, who really
told us who he was, one night at the General's. He was travelling about
in search of amusement. I was a school-girl, and an easy prey—and all
the time he was engaged to Miss Calderwood."

"He was not, and he is not," retorted Dido, decidedly. "That is only
old Mr. Redmond's pet project—and Katie has got some silly idea into
her head because she saw them riding together once or twice; for that
matter, so did I! She looked as cross as two sticks, and he looked
bored to death; she told me once, in a burst of confidence, you know
her style of being one's bosom friend one day and cutting you dead the
next?"

"No, I don't" (shortly), "Miss Calderwood and I never coalesced."

"Well, she imparted to me that Mr. Lisle had a hateful temper and
unsufferable manners, but that one could not expect everything! I said
to myself, if _you_ expect to be Mrs. Lisle, you will find yourself
excessively mistaken. Mind you, _I_ am speaking of Mr. Redmond's
nephew."

"So am I."

"It is incredible that it should be him. Could there have been any
misunderstanding? Did you flirt with any one when he was away?"