XXXII.

BARRY'S GUESS.

"O many a shaft at random sent,
Finds mark the archer little meant."—_Scott._


THE following morning Helen was formally conducted round the premises
by her cousins. They explored the tangled shrubbery, the garden, and
the yard; the latter was empty—save for a clutch of chickens, and a
flock of voracious ducks,—and at least half the offices were minus
roofs and windows.

"The whole place was tumbling down," explained Dido; "and as the Padré
could do nothing, Darby Chute said he might just as well make the best
of a bad job, and he took off the doors and rafters for fire-wood."

"Yes, and Barry was _raging_," supplemented Katie. "Barry is papa's
heir.—He is our cousin, and lives a mile away on the Terryscreen road.
He says there won't be a stick or a stone left together before long. He
often comes over here. He declares the place is going to rack and ruin."

Helen glanced at the range of yawning, roofless stables, and could
not help sharing in Mr. Barry's rueful anticipations; and Katie,
interpreting her glance, added hastily,—

"But papa will restore it all some day. He always says his brain is his
Golconda, and he will be a Crœsus yet. He says——"

"This is the dairy," interrupted Dido, suddenly turning a big key.
"Mind the step."

It struck Helen that she frequently broke in upon the current of her
sister's narratives, especially when she was attempting to give
detailed descriptions of the sayings and doings of their gifted parent.

"This is the dairy," she repeated, ushering them into a white-washed,
red-tiled room, filled with big, brown pans of wrinkled cream, tubs of
milk, and golden pats of butter.

"We have five fine cows," she said, twirling the key round her thumb.
"We sell the milk about the place, and the butter in Terryscreen
market; Sally MacGravy takes it in every Thursday. She is cook,
laundress, and dairy-maid. The 'Master' churns. By-the-way, I wonder
where he is?"

"Where he ought not to be, you may be perfectly certain," responded
Katie. "Yes, I see him, he is over in the turf-house." And sure enough,
just above the half-door of a great shed, the ill-tempered face of an
old brown mule was visible.

"And that's the 'Master,'" exclaimed Helen, rather relieved in her own
mind; for visions of her eccentric uncle wielding the churn-dash had
somewhat disturbed her.

"Yes," said Dido. "We call him the 'Master' because the name suits him
so beautifully. He goes and comes exactly as he pleases, opens doors
and gates, and walks in and out at pleasure. He was here when we came,
eight years ago, and is consequently the oldest inhabitant. Some people
say he is forty years of age; but at any rate he is older than any of
us! Now let us go to the garden."

The garden was of vast extent, surrounded by high grey walls, and
wholly devoted to fruit and vegetables. Grass pathways, lined with
currant and gooseberry bushes, divided it into immense plots of
potatoes, peas, and cabbages. In some places, so dense was the jungle
of unwieldy bushes that these walks were quite impassable.

"What quantities of fruit you will have!" remarked Helen, to whom this
huge garden was a novel sight.

"Yes, there will be a fine crop of strawberries—at least I hope so,
for nothing pays so well," rejoined the distinguished-looking, but
practical Dido. "We make a good deal out of the fruit; and we work hard
ourselves; not in fancy aprons and with little trowels, but in real
sober earnest; we plant, and prune, and weed, and water; and on the
whole the garden is a financial success. And 'All Right' helps us.
That's him there in the next plot—the man without the hat. He minds
the cows, and goes to the post, and makes himself useful. He is called
'All Right' just because he is _not_ quite all there! Here he is now,"
as an individual with a spade over his shoulder, and minus hat and
boots, came shuffling down a neighbouring walk.

Andy was a middle-aged man, who looked quite juvenile; partly on
account of his very light and abundant hair, and almost white eyebrows,
and partly because of a certain childish expression,—relieved by
occasional flashes of very mature cunning.

"Well, Andy," said Dido pleasantly, "you have a fine day for the young
plants; how are you getting on?"