"But I tell you that he _is_! I can prove it; I have it all in black
and white!" cried Mrs. Creery furiously—her temper had now gone by
the board. Who was this Mrs. Durand that she should dare to contradict
her? She saw that they were face to face in the lists, and that the
other ladies were eager spectators of the tourney; it was not merely
a dispute over Mr. Lisle, it was a struggle for the social throne,
whoever conquered now would be mistress of the realm. This woman must
be browbeaten, silenced, and figuratively slain!

"I have it all in writing, and pray what can _you_ bring against that?"
she demanded imperiously.

"Simply my word, which I hope will stand good," returned the other
firmly.

Mrs. Creery laughed derisively, and tossed her head and then replied,—

"Words go for nothing!"

This was rude—it was more than rude, it was insulting!

"Am I to understand that you do not believe mine?" said Mrs. Durand,
making a noble effort to keep her temper.

"Oh," ignoring the question, "I have never doubted that _you_ could
tell us more about Mr. Lisle than most people, and a woman will say
anything for a man—a man who is a friend," returned the other lady
with terrible significance.

This was hard-hitting with a vengeance, still Mrs. Durand never quailed.

"Shall I tell you who Mr. Lisle really is? I did not intend to mention
it, as he begged me to be silent."

(Here Mrs. Creery's smile was really worth going a quarter of a mile to
see.)

"I have known him for many years; he is an old friend of mine, and of
my brothers."

"Oh, of your brothers!" interrupted her antagonist, looking up at the
ceiling with a derisive laugh and an adequate expression of incredulity.

"I am not specially addressing myself to _you_, Mrs. Creery," exclaimed
Mrs. Durand at white heat, but still retaining wonderful command of her
temper. "My brothers were at Eton with him," she continued, looking
towards her other listeners. "He is the second son of Lord Lingard and
the Honourable Gilbert Lisle."

A silence ensued, during which you might have heard a pin drop; Mrs.
Creery's face became of a dull beetroot colour, and her eyes looked as
if they were about to take leave of their sockets.

"And what brought him masquerading here?" she panted forth at last.

"He was not masquerading, he came in his own name," returned Mrs.
Durand with calm decision. "He left the service on coming in for a
large property, and spends most of his time travelling about; he is
fond"—addressing herself specially to the other ladies, and rather
wondering at Helen Denis's scarlet cheeks—"of exploring out-of-the-way
places. I believe he has been to Siberia and Central America. The
Andamans were a novelty; he came for a few weeks and stayed for a few
months because he liked the fishing and boating and the unconventional
life."

"And who is the other Lisle?"

"Some distant connection, I believe; every family has its black sheep."

"Why did he not let us know his position?" gasped Mrs. Creery.

"Because he thinks it of so little importance; he wished, I conclude,
to stand on his own merits, and to be valued for himself alone. He
found his proper level here, did he not, Mrs. Creery? He lived in the
palace of truth for once!" and she laughed significantly—undoubtedly
turn-about is fair play, it was her turn now.

"I must say that I wonder what he saw in the Andamans," exclaimed Mrs.
Graham at last.

"One attraction, no doubt, was, because he could go away whenever he
liked; another, that he was left to himself—no one ran after him!" and
Mrs. Durand laughed again. "In London he is made so much of, as every
one knows he is wealthy and a bachelor, and that his eldest brother has
only one lung! Besides all these advantages, he is extremely popular,
and is beset by invitations to shoot, to dance, to dine, to yacht, from
year's end to year's end. Well, he got a complete holiday from all that
kind of thing _here_!"

Then she recollected that in castigating Mrs. Creery and Miss Caggett
she was including totally innocent people—people who had always been
civil to the Honourable Gilbert Lisle, such as Mrs. Graham, Mrs. Home,
Miss Denis, and others, and she added,—