Visitors came rapping at No. 15, Cream Street every afternoon, and two,
out of the dozens who had called, asked for "Miss Denis." A few days
after her arrival, she had been in the drawing-room with her cousins
Carrie and Clara, when her first caller made her appearance.

The drawing-room was an apartment that seemed to be all mirrors, low
chairs, small tables, and plush photo frames—a pretty room, entirely
got up for show, not use. Several of the chairs, were not to be
trusted, and one or two tables were decidedly dangerous, but the _tout
ensemble_ through coloured blinds, was everything that was smart and
fashionable, and "good style"—the fetish the Miss Platts worshipped.

On this particular afternoon Carrie was yawning over the fire, Clara
was looking out of the window, commenting on a coroneted carriage and
superb pair of steppers, with what is called extravagant action, which
had just stopped opposite. Mentally she was thinking, how much she
would like to see this equipage in waiting at their own door, when a
very curious turn-out came lumbering along, and actually drew up at
No. 15. A shapeless, weather-beaten, yellow brougham, drawn by a fat
plough-horse, and driven by a coachman in keeping with his steed—a man
with a long beard, a rusty hat (that an Andamanese would have scorned),
and a horse-sheet round his knees.

Little did Helen Denis dream that she was gazing at that oft-vaunted
vehicle—Lady Grubb's carriage.

"Good gracious, Carrie, who on earth is this?" cried Clara, turning to
her sister, who was now staring exhaustingly at her own reflection in
the chimney-glass. "And coming to call here! Oh, for mercy's sake, do
come and look!"

The door of the brougham was slowly opened, and a very stout old lady,
attired in a long black satin cloak, and gorgeous bonnet with nodding
plumes, descended, and waddled up the steps.

In the vacant carriage there still remained two fat pugs, a worked
cushion, a pile of books, and what certainly looked like a basket of
vegetables!

"It's no one _we_ know," said Clara contemptuously.

"It may be a friend of Plunket's, or a mistake."

Apparently it was neither, for at this moment the door was flung open,
and,—

"Lady Grubb!" was announced.

Very eagerly she advanced to Clara, with round, smiling face, and
outstretched hands, saying,—

"So glad to find you at home! My sister told me to be sure and call,
and as I was at the stores,"—here she paused and faltered, literally
cowed by the expression of Miss Platt's eyes—Miss Platt, who drew
back, elongated her neck, and looked insolent interrogation.

"I think you have been so good as to come and see me," murmured Helen,
hastily advancing to the rescue. "You are Mrs. Creery's sister?"

"Yes, and of course you are Miss Denis," seizing her outstretched hand
as if it were a life-belt, for poor Lady Grubb was completely thrown
off her balance, by the stern demeanour of the other damsel.

Helen led her to a sofa, and tried to engage her in friendly
conversation, but it was not easy to converse, with her two cousins
sitting rigidly by, as if they were on a board of examination, and not
suffering a word or look to escape them. They sat and gazed at Lady
Grubb in quite a combined and systematic manner; to them she was such a
unique object, and such utterly "awful style."

She, like her sister, was endowed with a copious flow of language,
but the very fountain of her speech was frozen by these two ice
maidens. The first few words she did manage to utter, were hurried and
incoherent, but presently she found courage to inquire after Maria, and
Nip, and Creery (horrible to relate, she called him "Creery"), and also
after many people, she had heard about at Port Blair.

It was very plain to Helen, that Maria had painted her island home,
with an unsparing supply of gorgeous colours, and Lady Grubb looked
upon her absent relative's position, as something between that of
the Queen of Sheba, and the Princess Badoura without doubt. She then
murmured a few words of really kind condolence to Helen, and if she had
taken her departure at this point, all would have been well; but she
was now becoming habituated to the stony stare of the Misses Platt, and
felt more emboldened to converse,—and some malicious elf put it into
her head to say, with a meaning smile,—

"I am quite up in all the Port Blair news and Port Blair secrets, you
know. I've heard a great deal about a certain gentleman."