The Settlement band played twice a week in the little public gardens
on Ross, and their strains were an irresistible summons to all the
(free) inhabitants. One special afternoon, we notice Mrs. Home holding
animated converse with Mr. Latimer, in his cool, black alpaca coat;
we see Mrs. Creery enthroned on a sofa (which she always provided)
alone, clad in a gorgeous combination of colours, that could only have
been achieved by a daring soul! We observe Helen and Miss Caggett in
company—the latter had apologized for her outbreak. "It would not
_do_," she said to herself, "to be on bad terms with the Denis girl,
she was too popular, all the men would be on her side, Captain Rodney,
Mr. Green, and that ugly Irishman, Dr. Malone; wretches who were always
praising her rival in her hearing!" A day or two after the storm, she
had gone to Helen, and begged and implored her to forget a certain
scene between them in the forest above North Bay; declared that she
would be miserable for life if Helen was not her friend, that she would
rather have her little finger than Mr. Quentin's whole person, that she
would sooner marry the typical crossing-sweeper than him, and that she
had been very cross and bad-tempered, and hoped that Helen would forget
an occasion that it would make her blush to recall! This was very fine,
but _who_ had ever seen Miss Caggett blush? However, Helen was quite
ready to accept the olive-branch, and, like the school-boys, to say
"Pax."

There was a considerable gathering at the band, including "Mr. Quentin
and Co.," as Mrs. Creery humorously called them. On band nights, the
former usually reclined on the sward, literally and figuratively at
Helen's feet, but to-night this butterfly was occupied (in quite a
temporary manner) with a nice-looking widow, who had come over from
Rangoon to pay a visit to her sister, Mrs. King, at Viper. People were
walking about in couples, standing in groups, and sitting down in rows.
Mrs. Creery (who did not appreciate the solitude of greatness) nodded
to Helen to approach, and take a place beside her, saying, rather
patronizingly, as she accepted the invitation, "So I hear that your
little bachelor's dinner went off quite nicely, and that everything was
eatable except the ice pudding!"

Helen felt annoyed, "quite nicely" was indeed but faint praise, after
all the trouble she had taken, and the success that she flattered
herself she had achieved.

She made no reply, but became rather red.

"And you had Mr. Quentin, of course, and the General, and Mr. Latimer,
and Dr. Parks. What champagne did you give them; from the mess, or the
bazaar?"

"Bazaar champagne! Oh, Mrs. Creery"—indignantly—"there is no such
thing, is there?"

"Yes, and why not? I believe no one can tell the difference between
it and that expensive stuff at the mess. I declare—" her attention
suddenly distracted to another quarter—"look at Mr. Lisle, in a
respectable suit of clothes"—glancing over to where that gentleman was
talking to three men.

"Billy!" she screamed to one of Mrs. Home's little boys, "go over
to Mr. Lisle, and tell him that I want him at once. Fancy"—turning
to Helen and speaking in a tone of pious horror—"those men are
European convicts, tickets-of-leave, and allowed to use the garden and
library—a very unwise indulgence. I quite set _my_ face against it,
and so I've told the General. Of course no decent person would speak to
the wretches; no one but a man like Lisle!"

"What have they been sent here for?" asked her companion.

"One for forgery, one for stabbing a man in a sailor's row in
Calcutta, and one was, _he_ says, sent here by mistake; but most of
them say _that_! Well," raising her voice, "Mr. Lisle, permit me to
congratulate you on your choice of companions."

"Poor creatures! They never have the chance of exchanging a word with
any one but each other, it pleases them, and does _me_ no harm. Lots of
worse fellows are at large,—and prospering!"

"Oh, pray don't excuse yourself, Mr. Lisle. Birds of a feather—you
know the adage."

"Yes, thank you, Mrs. Creery," making an inclination of such
exaggerated deference, that Helen now understood what Miss Caggett
meant, when she said that he was polite to rudeness. "You sent for me,
Mrs. Creery?"—interrogatively.

"Yes, because I did not choose to see you talking to those jail birds!
You can talk to _me_ instead."

Here was alluring invitation!

"Of course you know Miss Denis—but only recently. You were late in
welcoming her to Port Blair!"