As the sound of the oars grew fainter and fainter, Helen went to the
bows, from whence she hoped to make her sketch, and stood silently
looking at the view—at the wooded hills casting deep shadows into the
glassy water, at the arm of the sea they had just come up, and out in
the open ocean like a green gem in a silver setting—the distant island
of Ross. It was undoubtedly, as Mr. Latimer had suggested, a capital
place for a sketch, and she must lose no time, and make the most of the
light whilst it lasted. So she got out her paint-box and immediately
set to work; but,—and here I appeal specially to artists,—_is_ it
easy to draw, with a large solar topee thrust over your right shoulder,
and a voice perpetually in your ear, saying,—

"Oh, you are not making Ross nearly high enough! Surely that point is
never meant for Hopetown? those trees are too far apart; and Chatham is
crooked!"

Helen was almost beside herself, every stroke was rudely criticized,
and Mrs. Creery emphasized her remarks with her chin, which was nearly
as sharp as that of the Duchess in _Wonderland_. At length she turned
her attention elsewhere, much to her victim's relief, and began to
investigate, and poke about among old spars and rubbish.

After a delightful respite, Helen heard her calling out,—

"I see a little boat coming this way, with two men in it—no, one man
is a dog; it's from Navy Bay, and is sure to be Mr. Manners. I'll wave
and beckon him here, for it's very dull for me!"

Accordingly Mrs. Creery's handkerchief (which was the size of an
ordinary towel) was seen being violently agitated over the side, and
met with an immediate response, for the little boat rowed by one man,
with one dog passenger, was soon within easy hail.

"I do declare," cried Mrs. Creery peevishly, "if it is not that odious
Mr. Lisle! I never wanted _him_." However, wanted or not, he was
already alongside, looking up at the bulwarks expectantly.

"Oh! it's you, Mrs. Creery! can I be of any service to you?"

"I thought it was Mr. Manners," she called down in an aggrieved tone.
"I never dreamt of its being _you_! However, you may come up," speaking
precisely as if she were in her own verandah.

Mr. Lisle did not look as if he was going to seize this niggardly
invitation; on the contrary, he took a firmer hold of the sculls,
glanced over his shoulder, and was evidently about to depart, when Mrs.
Creery casually remarked, as if it were a mere afterthought,—

"Oh! by-the-way, Miss Denis is here too, sketching."

Apparently this intelligence altered the case, for the gentleman
paused, rested on his oars, and said rather nonchalantly,—

"Very well, I shall come aboard—since you wish it so particularly!"
and, rowing round, made fast his boat, and was soon on deck, closely
followed by a big brown retriever.

"Oh, dear me!" cried Mrs. Creery, lifting up her hands. "So you have
brought that nasty dog! he is sure to fight with Nip."

"Not he, I will be security for his good conduct. And how are you
getting on, Miss Denis?" to Helen, who was shyly hiding her drawing
with her arm.

"Not at all well; I am not accustomed to sketching, and my attempt here
is such a libel on the view, that I am quite ashamed to let you see
it, but it" (apologetically) "seems a pity not to try and take away
some recollections of these lovely islands."

"Yes, you are quite right; and I shall be very glad to give you some
photographs, that is if you would care for them—they don't give the
colours, of course."

(At this offer Mrs. Creery became rigid and gave a little warning
cough.)

"But," taking up Helen's sketch, "this is not at all bad! Your
perspective is a bit out here, and you have not got the right shade in
the sea!"

"I know it is all frightful; sea, and land, and sky," returned Helen,
colouring; "I am sure you can draw, Mr. Lisle: please have the charity
to do something to it for me, and make it look less like a thing on a
tea-tray," holding her box and brushes towards him as she spoke.

Mr. Lisle, without another word, laid the block upon the bulwarks,
gazed for a moment at the scene, and then dashed in two or three
effective strokes, with what even Mrs. Creery (who had, of course,
followed up the sketch) could see was a master's hand.