"What is it? Tell me all about it, confide in _me_."

But somehow she dared not, bold as she was.—Recent grief had aged
Helen, and given her a gravity far beyond her years, and as she looked
across at that marble face, those downcast eyes, and busy fingers, she
found her kind, warm heart fail her. Whatever the hurt was, ay, were it
mortal, that girl meant to bear it alone.

She was more affectionate and sympathetic to her young friend than
usual, smoothed her hot forehead, kissed her, caressed her, and whilst
they sat together in the twilight in the verandah, looking out on the
dusky sky, found courage to murmur,—

"Dearest Helen, remember that I am your friend, not merely in name
only. Should you ever have any—any little trouble such as girls have
sometimes, you will come and share it with me, won't you? I am older,
more experienced by years and years, and I will always keep your
secrets, exactly as if they were my own!"

This was undoubtedly a strong hint; nevertheless, her listener merely
smiled and nodded her head, but made no other sign. "_Little_ trouble!"
She was on the rack all day long. She bore the torture of her hostess's
soft whispers and tender, sympathetic looks, which told her that she
guessed _all_. She bore the brightly-lit dinner-table, and Captain
Durand's cheerful recounting of the most thrilling news. She even
endured his eloquent praises of Gilbert Lisle without flinching. Little
did her gallant host guess the effort that those smiles and answers
cost her. Good, commonplace man! he had got over his brief love affair
fifteen years previously, and had forgotten it as completely as a tale
that is told. Mrs. Durand had a more vivid recollection of her own
experiences,—and a share of that fellow-feeling that makes us all
akin. She was amazed at Helen's fortitude, especially when she glanced
back over the past and remembered (and I hope this will not be put down
to her discredit) that when _she_ had seen the announcement of the
marriage of her first fancy in the paper, she had spent the remainder
of the day in hysterics and the subsequent week in tears. She walked
back with Helen, and left her herself at Colonel Home's door, and bade
her good-night with unusual tenderness. Then she retraced her steps,
arm-in-arm with her husband, whose mind was abruptly recalled from
planning a long day's sea-fishing, by her saying rather suddenly,—

"I know _now_ why Helen refused Dr. Parkes!"

"Oh!" contemptuously, "I could have told you the reason long ago, if
you had asked me. Because he was the same age as her father!"

"No, you dear, stupid man—but this is quite private. I am sure,"
lowering her voice, "that she likes Gilbert Lisle."

A long whistle was the only reply to his information for some seconds,
and then he said,—

"Now what has put _that_ into your head?"

"Her face when you came in and told us that he was not coming back. I
cannot get it out of my mind, it was only a momentary expression, she
rallied again at once; but that moment told me a tale that she has
hitherto guarded as a secret."

"You are as full of fancies and ridiculous, romantic ideas as if you
were seventeen instead of——"

"Don't name it!" she interrupted hastily, "the very leaves here have
ears!"

Her husband laughed explosively, and presently said,—

"I never knew such a woman as you are for jumping at conclusions. She
had a twinge of face-ache, that was all."

"A twinge of heart-ache, you mean. But what is the use of talking to
_you_?—you are as matter-of-fact as a Monday morning. And now, pray
tell me, though I suppose I might just as well ask Billy Home, did
Gilbert Lisle ever show her any attention?"

"Ha—hum—well, do you think that saving her life could be called an
attention?"

"Yes," eagerly; "yes, of course! I'd forgotten about that!"

"And another time he picked her off the mainland and brought her home
in what is now your boat, through a series of white squalls."

"Did he really?" the really, as it were, in large capitals.

"And he was there a few times. But you need not get any ideas into your
head about _him_, it was always Quentin, he was always hanging about
her in that heavy persistent way of his—it was Quentin, I tell you!"

"And _I_ tell you," responded his wife emphatically, "that it was, and
is, Gilbert Lisle. I recollect his saying, the night of the ball, what
a nice girl she was; or _I_ said it, and he agreed, which is the same
thing. And I remember perfectly, now that I think of it, noticing them
leaning over a gate, and looking just like a pair of lovers."