III.

FIRST IMPRESSIONS.

"And I am something curious, being strange."

_Cymbeline._


THE morning after her arrival Helen Denis found herself alone, as her
father was occupied with drills and orderly-room till twelve o'clock,
when they breakfasted.

She went out into the verandah, and looked about her, in order to
become better acquainted with the situation of her new home. The
bungalow stood a little way back from the gravel road, that encircled
the whole island, and was shaded by a luxuriant crimson creeper; a
hedge of yellow flowers bordered the path leading up to the door, and
between the house and the sea was a clump of thick cocoa-nut palms,
that stood out in bold relief against the deep cobalt background of
the sky. Jays, parrots, and unfamiliar tropical birds were flitting
about, and from the sea a faint breeze was wafted, bearing strange
fragrant odours from the distant mainland; a light haze lay over the
water, betokening a warm meridian. A few white clouds slumbered in the
hot heavens overhead; and save for the hum of insects and birds, and a
distant sound of oars swinging to and fro in the rowlocks, the place
was as silent as a Sunday morning in the country, when every one has
gone to church.—At first Helen stood, and then she sat down on the
steps to contemplate this scene, which formed the prelude to a new
epoch in her life—she gazed and gazed, and seemed afraid to move her
eyes, lest the vision should escape her. She sat thus without moving
for fully half an hour.

"Well, what do you think of it all, young woman?" from a voice behind
her, caused her to spring up, and she found her father standing there
in his white uniform, with his sword under his arm.

"Oh, papa! I never, never saw anything like it; I never dreamt or
fancied there could be such a beautiful spot—it's like fairyland! like
an enchanted country, like"—her similes running short—"like Robinson
Crusoe's island."

"Rather different to Brompton, eh? I suppose you had not much of a view
there?"

"View!" she exclaimed; "if there had been one, we could not see it!
for in the first place we were shut in by high, dirty brick walls, and
in the second, all the lower windows were muffled glass; there was one
window at the end of the school-room that overlooked the road, and
though it was pretty high up, it was all painted, but some one had
scratched a little space in it, right in the middle, and often and
often, when I've been saying my lessons, or reading translations in
class, every idea has been sent right out of my head, when I've looked
up at that pane and seen an _eye_ watching us—it always seemed to be
watching _me_! but of course that was imagination; it used to make me
feel quite hysterical at times, and many a bad mark it cost me!"

"Well, you are not likely to get any bad marks here," said her father,
laying his hand on her shoulder as he spoke; "and you think you will
like Port Blair?"

"Like—why it seems to me to be a kind of paradise! I wonder half the
world does not come and live here," she replied emphatically.

To this remark ensued a rather long silence, a silence that was at
length broken by a noise as strange to Helen's ears, as the lovely
scene before her was to her still admiring eyes; this noise was a loud,
fierce, hoarse shout, something like an angry cheer. She glanced at her
father with a somewhat heightened colour, and in answer to her startled
face he said,—

"Those are the convicts! they leave off work at twelve o'clock, they
are busy on the barracks just now. Stay where you are, and you will see
them pass presently."

The approach of the convicts was heralded by a faint jingling of chains
that gradually became louder and louder; and in a few moments the
gang came in sight, escorted by four burly, armed warders. Helen drew
back, pale and awe-struck, as she watched this long, silent procession
file past, two and two, all clad in the same blue cotton garment, all
heavily manacled, otherwise there was but little resemblance among
them. There passed the squat Chinaman, chained to the tall, fiery
Pathan (who flung as he went by a glance of bitter hatred and defiance
at the two European spectators); they were in turn followed by a brace
of tattooed Burmans, who seemed rather cheerful than otherwise; then a
few mild Hindoos, then more Arabs, more Burmans, more fierce Rohillas,
more mild Hindoos!

Helen stood almost breathless, as they glided by, nor did she speak
till the very last sound of clanking chains had died away in the
distance.