XLI.

"THE POACHER'S GHOST."

"But I am constant as the Northern Star."


IT was not dark, it was not even dusk, when Helen, having fought her
way through the laurustinus and syringa of the pleasure-grounds,
mounted the hill which lay between Crowmore and Ballyredmond. Here she
paused on the summit, and looked back. What a change even two days can
make in one's whole existence! Two evenings previously she had been
picking mushrooms on this very hill in her ordinary, tranquil frame
of mind; now, glancing down on the old Castle, Crowmore was to have a
new master, and she must leave its shelter! Her annual pittance would
soon be due, and she would thus be enabled to return to her duties,
at Malvern House. Well, she had never intended to quarter herself
altogether on her cousins! With a half-stifled sigh she turned her face
towards Ballyredmond, whose gables and chimneys peeped above the trees.
And so Gilbert Lisle was under that roof—probably at dinner at that
moment, sitting opposite to Miss Calderwood! "Of _course_ he is engaged
to her," she said aloud; "Dido only denied it because the wish was
father to the thought! I dare say they will be married soon; perhaps
before I leave. Well, I think I shall be able to decorate the church,
and even to accept an invitation to the wedding—if I get one!"

These thoughts brought her to the notorious gate, which separated the
two estates. It led from the hill-side pasture of Crowmore straight
into the dense woods of Ballyredmond and was at present fastened by a
stout padlock. There was no sign of John Dillon; no sound to be heard,
save the cawing of rooks and the cooing of wood-pigeons; and, without a
moment's delay, Helen dived into her pocket, produced a small penknife,
and commenced to carve her initials with somewhat suspicious haste.
She was not the least afraid of ghosts; her solution of the great
"apparatus" scare had effectually banished all such fears; but it was a
silent, lonely place, where she had no desire to linger.

The wood she was operating upon was hard, the penknife brittle, and
the process slow. She had only achieved the letter H, when her ears,
being quickened by an almost unconscious apprehension, caught the tread
of a footstep coming through the plantation. Nearer and nearer it
approached; now it was walking over leaves, which deadened the sound;
now it stepped upon a rotten twig, which snapped. Her heart, despite
her bravery, commenced to flutter wildly. Was this the poacher's ghost?
she would know in another second; in another second the branches were
thrust aside by a grey tweed arm, and she beheld, not John Dillon,—but
Gilbert Lisle! and she felt that the sharpest crisis of her life, was
at hand.

He stopped for an instant, as though to collect himself, then came
straight up to the gate and doffed his cap. He looked grave, and
extremely pale; and after a perceptible pause, he said,—

"Miss Denis, I am very glad to meet you again."

In answer to this she merely inclined her head. At this supreme moment
she could not have spoken to save her life.

"I see that the pleasure is entirely on my side; and, naturally, you
believe me to be the most faithless, perfidious—"

"The past is past," she interrupted in a low hurried voice. "Let
us agree to forget that we have ever met before. I was a silly
school-girl; you were a traveller—a man of the world, seeking to
enlarge your experience of places and people. You experimented on _me_.
It was rather cruel, you know, but it does not matter now. We do not
live in the age of broken hearts!"

"Miss Denis!" he returned passionately, "I'd rather a man had struck
me across the mouth than be obliged to stand and listen to such
words from a woman! And the worst of it all is, that your taunts
seem well-deserved. You do not know the _truth_. Look here," hastily
producing a letter addressed to herself, "I was on my way to leave this
for you with my own hands. I did not venture to expect that you would
see me; but since I have so happily met you, will you listen to me?"

"No, Mr. Lisle," she answered coldly, "I am not a school-girl _now_."

"Pardon me, but you must—you shall—hear me," suddenly closing his
hand on her wrist with a vice-like grasp, and speaking with unusual
vehemence.

"Of course I must hear you, if you choose to detain me against my will!
Would you keep me here by such means?" she asked, her voice trembling
with indignation.

"I would! Yes, brutal as it sounds, I _would_. Every criminal has a
right to be heard; and from you, in whose eyes I appear a miserable
traitor, I claim that privilege. I will no longer suffer you to think
me a base, false-hearted cur! There," suddenly liberating her hand as
he spoke, "There, I release you, but I appeal to your sense of honour,
and justice, to give me a hearing!"