"There was a large European community at Port Blair. As to taking you
for a fool, it would be the last thing to occur to me—on the contrary,
the young lady took _me_ for one."

"Then she never made a greater mistake in her life,—never. And why did
it not come off?"

"She preferred another fellow, that was all."

"_Preferred!_ humph—good matches must have been growing on the trees
out there. Well, well, well," looking fixedly at his son, "there's as
good fish in the sea as ever were caught—why not fall back on Katie?"

"It has not come to that _yet_, sir—and I would sooner, if it was all
the same to you, fall back on a loaded revolver."

"She has the mischief's own temper, I allow—but what a property!
However, you need not look for money—a pretty, lively English girl,
that wears her own hair and complexion, and that can sing a song or
two, and get out of a carriage like a gentlewoman—that's the style!
Eh, Gilbert?"

"I suppose so, sir," rejoined his son gloomily; "but as the Irishman
said, 'You must give me a long day—a long day, your honour.'"

"And the old savage replied—I remember it perfectly—'I'll give you
till to-morrow, the twenty-first of June, the longest day in the year!'
And your shrift shall be a short one, my boy! What are you going to do
with yourself to-morrow?"

"Do you mean that you would marry me off within the next twelve hours?"

"No, you young stupid."

"Oh, well, I want to look in at the Academy and a couple of clubs, and
in the evening I'm going to dine with the Durands senior, and do a
theatre afterwards with the Durands junior."

"Oh!—Mary and her husband. Mary is a sensible woman. I want to talk to
her. Ask her to dine—say Thursday? Mary has her head screwed on the
right way. I shall consult her about you, Master Gilbert. I'll see what
she advises about you. She shall help me to put the noose round your
neck."

"The _noose_, indeed," repeated his son in a tone of melancholy sarcasm.

"Yes, yes, I'll settle it all with Mary." So saying, the old gentleman
went chuckling from the room in a high state of jubilation.

The next afternoon Gilbert Lisle formed one of a crowd who were
collected before a certain popular picture at the Royal Academy; but
so far his view had been entirely obscured by the broad back of a
gentleman in front of him; it vaguely occurred to him that there was
something rather familiar in the shape of those broad, selfish-looking
shoulders, when their owner suddenly turned round, and he found himself
face to face with James Quentin.

"By Jove, old fellow!" exclaimed the latter, shaking his hand
vigorously, "this _is_ a pleasant surprise; and so you have returned
from your travels—where do you hail from last?"

"Only New York; I arrived two days ago, and feel as if I had been away
for ten years, I'm so out of everything and behind the times,—a second
Rip Van Winkle."

"Then I suppose you have not heard _my_ little bit of news?"

"No—o—but I fancy I can guess it, it's not a very difficult
riddle—you are married!"

"Right you are! a second Daniel! Come away and speak to Mrs. Q., she
will be delighted to see you."

Gilbert had not bargained for this—he would much rather never meet
Helen Denis again; however, there was no resisting Apollo's summons,
and in another moment he was standing before a velvet settee, and ere
he was aware of it, his companion was saying, "Jane, my love, let me
present an old friend—Mr. Lisle, Mrs. Quentin."

He glanced down, and saw a magnificently-attired, massive-looking dame,
over whose head fully forty summers had flown; she was smiling up at
him most graciously, and holding out a well-gloved hand—this lady was
indisputably Mrs. Quentin—but where was Helen Denis?

Her new acquaintance made a gallant struggle to master his amazement,
and to utter a few bald, commonplace remarks about the heat and the
pictures; and presently suffered himself to be borne onward by the
crowd. But Jim Quentin was not going to lose sight of him thus. He had
married a wife considerably beneath him in birth, and it behoved him to
keep a fast hold of his well-born friends, and a secure footing on the
social ladder.