"'Tis yourself that is the fine souple young lady, and not a hair the
worse; nayther is the mare, barrin' a couple of small cuts, and one of
the shafts is broke—faix, it _might_ have been sarious!"

"Arrah, what sort of a driver are ye, at all?" shouted the owner of the
turf-cart, breathless with rage, and haste. "Oh, 'tis Larry Flood—an'
I might have known!"

"And what call have you to be taking up the whole road?" retorted Larry
loudly. "The divil sweep you and your old turf kish, that was nearly
being the death of us!"

"Ah! and sure wasen't she running away as hard as she could lay leg to
groun'?"

"Well, and if she _was_; diden't she see you below in the bog, and take
you for a scarecrow? and small blame. Here, don't be botherin' me, Tim
Mooney, but lend a hand to rig up the machine, and the tackling."

Thanks to the turf-cutter's generous assistance, in a very short time
Mr. Larry Flood was enabled to come forward and announce to his fare,
who had dusted her dress from bog-mould and taken a seat on a piece of
wood, that "he was ready, if _she_ was."

The young lady accordingly rose, and followed him, and gravely
inspected the turn-out. The car was all down on one side still—the
result of a spring broken in the late collision—but the reins had been
knotted together, and the shaft was tied up with a piece of twine.

"It will hould all right," said Larry, following her eyes. "Any way, it
will carry _your_ distance, I'll go bail."

"Thank you; but I'm not going to try the experiment. I'm stiff enough
as it is; and one fall in the day is ample for the present."

"Fall! What fall? Sure ye only jumped off the car. Diden't I see you
with me own two eyes? And 'tis yourself that has them nice and tight
under yow! and in elegant proportion!—Meaning your ankles, Miss,—and
no offence."

"All the same I shall walk, fall or no fall," returned his late
passenger, with a scarlet face.

"You are a good mile off it yet," expostulated Larry. "How will you get
there?"

"On foot."

"And your bag; is that going on foot as well?"

"Perhaps you would leave it as you pass?"

"Indeed, and I will! Of course you are only English, and what could ye
_expect_; but at the first go off you were as stout as any lady that
ever sat on a car."

"Stout?" she echoed in supreme amazement. But perhaps in Ireland things
had different names.

"I mane stout-hearted! and now, after all, you are going to walk. To
_walk_!" he reiterated with indescribable scorn.

"Yes, and you will take the bag—_it_ has no neck to break."

"To be sure, I'll lave it with pleasure; but——" and here he paused
rather significantly.

"Of course I'll pay you," she said, fumbling for her purse. "How much?"

"Oh, well, sure—nothing at all! I would not be charging the likes of
you. 'Twas an honour to drive such a beautiful young lady."

"How much?" she repeated, with a little stamp of her foot.

"Well, thin, miss, since you are so _detarmined_, we won't quarrel over
two half-crowns; and if you would like me to drink your health in the
_best_ that was going," rubbing his mouth expressively with the back of
his hand, "we will say six shillings."

Helen immediately placed six shillings in his greedy palm.

"Thank you kindly, my lady! and may you live seven years longer than
was intended for you. It's not _my_ fault that I did not lave you at
your journey's end, as Tim Moony will allow. There's the mare," waving
his hand towards the wicked-looking chestnut; "there's the machine,"
indicating the battered car and twine-tied shaft; "and they are both
altogether and entirely at your service."

Helen shook her head resolutely, and made no other reply.