"Indeed, Darby, I shall tell the whole truth," cried Helen indignantly.
"You need not expect _me_ to keep such a thing secret."

"Well, I'll be out of it to-morrow! so it's no great matter. Good-bye,
Mr. Gilbert; good-bye, Miss Helen. You and I were never very thick,
still I wish you both luck and grace, and that you may live long and
die happy," and picking up his cap and gun, Mr. Darby Chute walked away
with considerable dignity.

"There's a nice ruffian for you!" exclaimed Gilbert emphatically.

"Yes; and to think how he must have robbed uncle, and poor Dido!"

"And to think of the years he has been poaching the country. However,
never mind him now, we have something else to talk about."

"But there's the stable clock striking eight, and I must go. And it's
your dinner-hour at Ballyredmond."

"Not to-night.—To-night I don't want any dinner. (Could manly devotion
go further?) I am going to walk back with you. Thank goodness, there is
no Mrs. Creery to hustle me away _this_ time."

To his proposal the young lady made no demur, no protestations; not
even when he insisted on taking her home by the longest way, up the
hill, out by the road, and in by the new avenue! The whole distance
was about three-quarters of a mile; the time occupied three-quarters
of an hour; the moon, a full harvest moon, had risen, and the twilight
had given place to a light almost as clear as day. Seated on her own
door-step, smoking her little dhudeen, they descried the "Fancy,"—and
she saw them! The unexpected appearance of an interesting-looking young
couple strolling down the road, was a welcome windfall to this active
old woman, who instantly sprang up, and darted out, to waylay them with
her invariable whine of,—

"Give the poor old woman the price of a cup of tay, your honour. Oh!"
recognizing him, "and 'tis yourself is welcome home, me own darling Mr.
Gilbert. Give me the price of a new petticoat, and that you may _gain
the lady_!"

In answer to this romantic appeal, he promptly threw her the sovereign
that Helen had returned, and Judy (having made herself acquainted with
the value of the coin) accompanied the lovers to the gates overpowering
them the while with shrill benedictions.

From the following few words it would appear as if the "Fancy's"
good wishes were wholly superfluous, and that the lady had already
surrendered.

"Good-night," she said as she paused half-way up the avenue. "You
really must not come any further."

"And pray why not?"

"Because they know nothing, and it will look so strange," she
stammered. "I should like to tell them first," she added rather shyly.

"Then I shall come over at cock-crow, to-morrow. May I come to
breakfast?"

"Yes, you may. Good-night," holding out her hand.

"Good-night! and is that all? I am not going to let you run off like
that, _this_ time!" detaining her. "You have forgotten something."

"Oh, of course! how stupid of me—the grouse to be sure!"

"No—NOT the grouse!" replied Gilbert—who was far bolder than Darby
imagined!

Two minutes later Helen's cousins,—who had been sitting with the
drawing-room door open, and the hall door as usual, eagerly listening
to every sound,—heard her running up the gravel, and then up the
steps. Her cheeks were scarlet, but on the whole, she did not look as
if she was flying from a ghost!

"What a fright you have given us!" cried Dido, rushing at her. "Katie
and I have been almost distracted.—You have been away nearly two
hours."

"Have I really!" she exclaimed apologetically. "I did not think I had
been half that time."

The anxieties of her relatives had evidently not been shared by Barry,
who sat with his feet upon a chair, a paper in his hand, and a look of
stolid indifference on his face.

"Well, did you see Dillon?" he demanded, as she entered the
drawing-room.