"Of course, Aunt Julia," acquiesced her listener.

"This is a ruinous neighbourhood, and this house, though so tiny,
costs four hundred a year; no doubt for half that sum, I would get a
mansion in Bayswater; but, as the girls say, there is no use in being
in town at all if you don't live in the best part of it, and here we
are! Then we require to keep up a certain style to correspond with
the situation—a man-servant is indispensable, and a carriage; the
horses, of course, are jobbed. Again, we have to entertain, to go to
the seaside, to dress—and this last, even with Plunket making half the
things, costs a small fortune! The long and the short of it is that,
out of my very tolerable income, I never have a single sixpence at the
end of the year. This being the case, you will readily understand, my
dear Helen, that, much as I should _wish_ to do so—I cannot offer you
a home here."

"No, of course, Aunt Julia, I never expected you to do so," replied her
niece in a low voice.

"You are a sensible girl, wonderfully so for your age, and I talk
to you, you see, as openly and as frankly as if you were my own
contemporary. I could not afford to dress you as you would require
to be dressed, and take you out; besides, the brougham is a crush
for three as it is, and three girls at a dance would be out of the
question. I must say, I should have _liked_ to have given you a season,
but, as Clara points out, my taking you into society would entail
leaving one of them behind, and charity begins at home; and, candidly,
I am very anxious to see them settled."

"Yes, aunt, of course I understand that your own daughters should come
first."

"And besides all this, my love," waxing more affectionate as she
proceeded, "I really have no room to give you. Plunket requires one to
herself; there is mine, and the girls', and the spare room, and, you
see——"

"I see, Aunt Julia," interrupted her niece, "don't say another word.
And now what are your plans for me?"

"Well, I had hoped to have got you a very happy, comfortable home, with
a very rich old lady in the country, who required a nice cheerful young
girl to talk to her, and read to her, and be with her constantly. She
was rather astray mentally—a little weak, you know; but you would have
got two hundred a year. However——" and she stopped.

"However, aunt——?"

"Well, I heard indirectly that she was liable to rather _violent_
paroxysms occasionally, and came to the conclusion that it would not
do! I have been making inquiries among my friends—of course, it's
rather a delicate business, and I don't mention that you are my own
niece; it would be so very awkward, you know; but I hope to hear of
something suitable ere long. Meanwhile, dear, I'm sure you won't be
offended at my telling you that we shall want your room next week!"

Helen's hands shook, her lips trembled, so that for the moment she was
unable to speak. Was she to be turned out of doors? She had exactly
four pounds in her purse upstairs!

"Clara's rich godmother always comes to us for June," continued Mrs.
Platt, "and we have to study her, and to make the house bright and
pleasant; it is then we always give our little dinner-parties. We do
our best to please her; she is very liberal to the girls, and we could
not possibly put her off. She will have the spare room, as usual,—and
her maid always occupies _yours_."

"Yes, Aunt Julia."

"I have made a very nice, temporary arrangement for you, dearest! A
lady I know, who keeps a large school at Kensington, has most kindly
offered to take you gratis for a month or two,—till we can look about
us. You are to teach the younger classes French and music."

"In short, go to her as governess?"

"Oh, dear me, no," irritably; "it is a mere friendly offer. She obliges
you, you oblige her, as one of her staff has gone home ill, and she is
rather short-handed just now."

"And will she pay me?" inquired Helen as bluntly as Mrs. Creery herself.

"Oh, no, I don't think there was any reference to that! Perhaps your
laundress may be included; but you scarcely seem to understand that
she is going to give you board and lodging for _nothing_. You are not
sufficiently experienced for a governess!"

"But——" began Helen, thinking of her superior musical talents and
fluent French.