The Indian nodded silently, and plunged into the forest in a direction
that promised to take him toward the road that crossed the foot of the
valley almost within sight of the clearing.

The recluse remained a moment listening, and presently caught the
sounds which the quicker senses of the chief had first announced. A
horseman was evidently galloping along the road toward him, and the
clatter of spur and scabbard told the nature of the traveler without
words.

The recluse cast his rifle into the hollow of his arm, and struck
across the valley to a point where he could intersect the road in its
many curves at a much nearer point. He was a little curious to see who
the advancing dragoon might be.

There was still plenty of light, although the sun was fast nearing the
mountain tops, and the long strides of the Mountain Hermit took him
across the stretch of woods that barred him from the road in a very
short time.

As he neared it, the sound of horse-hoofs and the clatter of a
saber-scabbard were plainly audible, skirting the mountain-side beyond.

At the point which the recluse had reached, the road came round a spur,
over the dividing ridge, and dived into the valley beyond. Waiting a
few moments, till the sound of hoofs was close by, the Mountain Hermit
stalked boldly into the road, just as the young hussar captain dashed
around the corner.

At the sight of the stranger’s figure, Adrian Schuyler abruptly halted,
throwing his horse on its haunches close to the other, while the sharp
click of his pistol-lock enforced the stern command, “Halt!”

The stranger quietly turned, and faced the hussar with a sullen frown,
asking:

“Who are you to halt a peaceable farmer? I’ve as much right as you, and
more, in this place.”

“Perhaps so,” said the hussar, coolly: “but in war-time we of the
light cavalry take liberties that we support with our weapons. Who are
you?”

“A peaceable farmer, as I said before,” answered the other, with a
sullen scowl. “Who are you?”

“An officer on duty, my man, who doesn’t care to be trifled with. There
are too many Indians and spies loose in these mountains for me to trust
strangers. If you’re a peaceable farmer, you’re as sulky a looking one
as I have seen. How far is it to Derryfield?”

“Four miles,” said the sullen stranger, gruffly. Then he turned away as
if the colloquy was terminated, but the hussar was not going to let him
off so easy.

“Halt!” he again cried, in his sharp tones, covering the other with his
pistol. “Move another step, and it’s your last.”

The stranger obeyed the order with his usual sullen air, but the
hussar’s voice showed that he was in earnest.

“Look here, Mr. Officer,” began the stranger, in a tone of injury, “I
don’t see what you have against me to treat me in this way. Let me
alone, or by the Lord, we’ll see if my rifle ain’t as good as your
pistol.”

The hussar was close to him, as he spoke, and he was already beginning
to handle his long rifle, when Adrian’s horse, obedient to his master’s
will, made a sudden leap, which brought the soldier’s left hand to the
shoulder of the recluse.

In a moment the muzzle of the pistol was at the sullen stranger’s ear,
as Adrian sternly ordered him:

“Fire in the air, quick, or _I_ fire here. Not a word. Fire!”

The sullen man cast one savage look up at the hussar’s face, but the
menace he met there was so unyielding that he obeyed the order.

The harmless rifle-bullet whistled skywards, and the sharp report waked
the echoes for miles around, as the now disarmed man stood glaring
defiantly up at the hussar.

“Now drop your gun,” said Adrian, sternly.

The stranger obeyed, still with the same scowl.

“It’s my impression,” pursued the officer, grimly, “that you’re a
spy of some sort, or you’d have treated a patriot officer with more
courtesy. Unbuckle your belt, and drop it. I see you have a knife
still. No fooling, sir. I shall be fully justified in shooting you if
you hesitate.”