VIII.

BURGOYNE’S IMP.


The night brooded over the white tents, and glimmering fires of a great
army, which lay on the open ground near Saratoga. Street after street
of tents and marquees, in martial array, stretched its long lines, now
silent and dark, perpendicular to the color line. Outside the camp
glimmered embers of the few fires that were left burning, and some
distance off, on the plain, and amid the little patches of wood, were
the brighter fires that told of the outlying pickets.

Occasionally, the distant challenge of a sentry would be heard, to be
followed by the same routine of “Who goes there?” “Rounds.” “Halt,
rounds, advance one with the countersign. Countersign correct. Pass,
Rounds, and a-all’s well!” The last words drawn out into a long,
musical call, caught up and repeated along the line of outposts.

Inside the camp there were no lights, save in one spot, around the
headquarter tents, which were clustered, in apparent confusion, in the
vicinity of a large, half-ruined house, in which the commander kept his
private quarters.

In these tents lights were burning, fires were kindled in front, and a
number of officers were writing at different desks, while orderlies, at
short intervals, entered and emerged from the quartermaster-general’s
tent.

In the large, old-fashioned parlor of the farm-house, which was
still comfortably furnished, and lighted with two wax-candles in
silver candlesticks, a stout officer, in the scarlet uniform of a
lieutenant-general, was walking up and down, with his hands behind his
back, occasionally stopping to speak to a second officer in the dark
green uniform of the Hessians, who stood in an attitude of attention,
to listen and answer the questions of his commander.

General Sir John Burgoyne was a handsome and intellectual man, a little
past the prime of life, and by no means the tyrannical blockhead he
has been represented. On the contrary, his literary abilities were
quite considerable, his powers of mind great; and, up to this time,
his campaign had been conducted on sound military principles, his army
having carried all before it.

The expression on his face that night, however, was one of decided
anxiety, as he conversed with the officer before mentioned.

“How long has this been going on, baron?” he asked, at length.

“For a whole week, General, as near as I can find,” was the reply, in
very pure English, for Baron Reidesel prided himself on his accent.

“And you say that the Indians are beginning to leave us?”

“General, they have already left us, in large numbers. If something be
not done to stop the panic, to-morrow they will leave in a body.”

Sir John Burgoyne looked anxious and perplexed.

“Would to heaven the Government would not employ them at all,”
he said. “They do us more harm with their atrocities, than their
services balance. That unfortunate affair of Jenny McCrea has raised
public feeling against us to a fearful extent, and now, when they
might be most useful, they are frightened to death, and deserting,
because of some masquerading rebel, who plays tricks on them with
raw-head-and-bloody-bones apparitions. Have the soldiers heard of the
panic, baron?”

“I regret to say, General, that our own outposts are catching the
infection, since the Indian chief, Creeping Wolf, was killed in sight
of our pickets. The man or demon, whichever it be, seemed to laugh at
their bullets, and disappeared, so they say, in a blaze of red flame.”

“Bah!” said Burgoyne, contemptuously, “’tis some conjuring trick. It
can not be possible that our men are so foolish as to fear it. I must
see that the rounds keep them awake. The fellows grow lazy, and dream.
I shall visit the pickets myself to-night.”

Baron Reidesel brightened.

“The very thing, General. If we keep up their spirits, they will
recover. I only hope we can gain the Indians back.”

“There is only one way, that I see, baron. We must catch this fellow
who disturbs us, and hang him. Doubtless it is some rebel spy. One good
thing. St. Leger sends me word that Fort Schuyler must soon surrender,
and that will encourage the waverers. Then, Baum’s dragoons must be
at Bennington by this time. Let them bring us provisions, and I’ll
make short work of Schuyler’s militia. Go and ask General Fraser, and
Philips, and the rest, to come with us, baron. I’ll be ready in five
minutes, and will make a grand round of all the outposts.”