XX.

THE MOUNTAIN HOME.


Once more we are in Vermont, in the little valley scooped in the side
of the haunted hill. The rough stone cottage still stands in the middle
of the clearing, but it is no longer lonely. Several horses are tied to
the trees around, two of them jet-black, the rest caparisoned chargers,
in the midst of which the dapple-gray steed of Adrian Schuyler is
noticed. Several rangers were lounging about and in the hut, and the
smoke curls up from the wide chimney, showing blue amid the silvery
haze of Indian summer.

But a feature has been added to the scene since we were last there. It
is not the vivid dyes of autumn alone. The mountain sides glow with
crimson and gold, but that is not all.

The change consists in the fact that a lofty portal has been revealed,
cut into the precipice that borders one side of the glade, while
the cavern to which it gives entrance, instead of being dark, is
illuminated from within, and shows as bright as day.

No rough, damp cavern is it either, but a lofty apartment, the rocks
hidden with hangings of white and crimson cloth, while within,
gathered around a table, are General Schuyler, the Count de Cavannes,
Adrian, and Diana, at the close of a dinner, waited on by black
servants.

The General holds up his glass to the light and addresses De Cavannes,
saying, “Count, to your future life. May it be happier than the past.
It is time to redeem your promise, and tell your children all.”

The count’s face was grave and sad as he replied:

“Philip, you say true, but you can not tell what it is to me to harrow
up those recollections. Still, it must be done, for I have promised.”

Then turning to the young people, who were respectfully listening, he
addressed them:

“Adrian Schuyler, I have trusted thee as I never have trusted living
man since--since--something happened in my past life. What that was,
thou shalt learn. I trusted thee, not alone for thine honest face,
but for the name thou bearest. Thy cousin Philip and I were once
fellow-students and travelers, and I never knew one of his blood that
was a traitor. Diana, my daughter, thou hast, for many a year, held
more fear than love to thy father. Now thou shalt learn the cause that
drove me to the wilderness, and made of me, once as frank as the day,
the gloomy hater of my kind that I was before Adrian came to us, to
bring light from the outer world.”

Then, while his audience gathered round him, hanging with intense
interest on his words, the count told them the story of his life, which
we shall epitomize as briefly as possible.

Alphonse de Cavannes, count in France, baron in Germany, and even
duke of a small Italian province, was, at thirty, an object of envy
to half of Europe, for his riches and social position. Descended from
a family which united the best bloods of three kingdoms, he inherited
vast estates in all, greatest of all in France. Such was the frank
generosity of his nature, that his parasites were numerous, but to none
of them had he shown so much kindness as to a young English officer, a
scion of the noble house of Oxford, Pierce Harley by name. This youth
had been taken prisoner by the count in the famous battle of Fontenoy,
thirty-two years before the date of our tale, and his captor, instead
of leaving him, as he well might have done, to the fate of an officer
on parole, on scanty pay, had taken him into his own house in Paris,
and treated him with the kindness of a brother. He had been induced to
this course chiefly from the finding that Harley was a distant relation
of the young Countess de Cavannes, who was, by birth, English, and
whom her husband positively adored. Young Harley, then a handsome,
athletic young fellow, had professed himself extremely grateful for
this kindness. Being a younger son, without fortune, the friendship
of the great French lord was of much value to him. When peace was
concluded, moreover, instead of allowing Harley to go back to England,
the generous count insisted on his resigning his commission, and
remaining in France as steward of all De Cavannes’ estates, everywhere
treated as the trusted friend of their owner. Harley accepted it, and
for twelve years occupied the post, doing exactly as he pleased. It
was during this period that Schuyler, then on a visit to Europe, met
his old fellow-student, and witnessed, with amazement, the splendor
of his establishment. The count was then deep in those expensive
scientific experiments to which he owed all his subsequent resources as
a conjuror and magician, in company with the celebrated or notorious
Count Cagliostro. It was Schuyler who induced the count to pay a visit
to America, and Harley managed all the details of the expedition, which
was made in princely style. On arrival in America, De Cavannes was
so much charmed with the beauty and grandeur of the scenery, that he
decided that he would buy an estate near Albany, and spend at least a
portion of his time there.