VII.

A STRANGE SERVICE.


Adrian Schuyler sat up, with some difficulty, owing to his bonds, and
looked around him. There lay the dead bodies, five in number, and every
one was that of an Indian. Strange to say, not a white man had fallen.
Each body was lying flat on its back, with a ghastly gash right over
the heart, that stretched across the whole length of the rib, leaving a
gaping red pit in the side.

The javelins with which death had been inflicted had vanished, and the
footprints of some creature with _a cloven foot_ were plainly visible
by the side of the corpses.

The light of day, instead of dispelling the mystery, only served to
render it deeper. The hussar could not tell where he was, for the thick
woods, but he noticed that the ground rose to the right of the camp,
with a steepness that told he was at the foot of a mountain.

Now, unwatched by human eye, he rolled himself near the body of an
Indian, and using the latter’s knife with his own fettered hands, soon
cut the cords that bound his feet together. His own handcuffs remained,
but they were not an incumbrance to his further escape. Moreover, it
was not hard to find weapons. They lay by the bodies, or scattered in
terror over the ground, and a heap of abandoned horse equipments,
at the foot of a tree, showed where the demoralized rangers had fled
on barebacked horses. Lying among these equipments he found his own
weapons as they had been thrown there, and it was with great joy that
he resumed them, one by one.

Putting on a sword-belt, when the person is handcuffed, is by no means
an easy operation, but Adrian managed it somehow, and then took his
departure for the mountain, presenting the strange spectacle of a fully
armed hussar roaming the woods, handcuffed like a prisoner.

The irons were decidedly inconvenient, but he had no means to unlock
them. The key in his saber-tasche had been taken by his captors of the
evening to extricate their chief, and the latter had fled, carrying it
with him.

In a short time the young officer had reached the ascent which he
judged to be the side of a mountain, and beheld his expectations
verified. A lofty mountain indeed was before him, and a break in the
woods, higher up, promised him a prospect of the surroundings.

After some minutes of hard climbing he reached a flat rock that jutted
out many feet from the mountain-side, and around which the trees had
gradually thinned away, leaving a view of the usual sea of mountains
and valleys.

Something in the scene seemed familiar to the hussar, who yet could not
exactly ascertain where he was. Casting his eyes to the right, over a
sea of foliage, he caught sight of a thin wreath of blue smoke curling
in the air, and at the same time, beheld a peculiar shaped cliff,
with a stream falling over its side, which he instantly recognized,
ejaculating:

“_By heavens, it is the Haunted Hill!_”

It was indeed, but the other side from that which he had seen the day
before.

“The mystery is solved,” mused the hussar. “No wonder the Indians
fled. It must have been the Mountain Demon that saved me last night.
But, surely, it can not be possible that demon’s really in it. There
was none here yesterday, and the savages must have grown bold from its
absence. Who can it be, then?”

As he thus mused, the clear silvery notes of a horn echoed from the
rocks overhead on the mountain-side, and soon after came the flying
feet of some creature rapidly approaching.

Instinctively, Adrian Schuyler drew one of his pistols and cocked it,
ready to defend himself against any attack.

The next moment one of the large bloodhounds he had seen the day
before, dashed over the rock at some distance, without noticing him,
and then came the graceful figure of the girl Diana, who bounded past
him within ten feet, and suddenly stopped, dumb with amazement, staring
at the handsome stranger.

Adrian was the first to break the silence.

“Fairest Diana,” he said, in his most winning tones, “well met once
more on the mountain.”

“How came you here, rash man?” asked the girl, hastily, and turning
pale as she spoke. “Do you not know that this is fatal ground? Are you
tired of your life? If _he_ finds you here, he will kill you.”