XVII.

THE LAST BATTLE.


A silent and dejected cavalcade was slowly emerging from the woods
behind Burgoyne’s quarters, on the morning of the 7th of October. It
was the returning party under Butler, disappointed of their aim, beaten
and dispirited.

The partisan, after his ducking in the lake and the flight of his men,
had certainly evinced rare courage, for he had actually returned to the
assault on the following morning, provided with a quantity of torches
of flaring pitch pine.

Under the stimulus of plenty of light, the dragoons had behaved better,
although nothing could induce the Indians to venture back. They had
thoroughly explored the first and second cave without any further
annoyance, but neither did they make any more discoveries. By what
means the three strange apparitions had managed to execute their flight
over the lake, remained a mystery, but they had evidently vanished, for
not a trace of living creature, save bats, was found.

Chamber after chamber, grand, beautiful, grotesque, and horrible, was
passed, but they heard no more the mocking echo of demoniac laughter.

Full of rage and disappointment, Butler returned to the outer air,
to find that his Indians, useless and superstitious as they were
underground, had made an important discovery by the light of day,
outside the limits of the cavern.

The tracks of three horses were found, quite fresh, at a little
distance from the cave mouth, and they led toward the camp of Burgoyne,
from another ravine.

The back trail, when followed, led to another opening in the hillside,
and it became evident that the tenants of the cave, human or
supernatural, had escaped.

The brow of the partisan grew dark and gloomy when he heard the news,
but he made no remark. Even since the plunge into the subterranean
lake, he had been much depressed in spirits, and now it was with sullen
apathy that he agreed to the proposal of Sir Francis Clark, and led the
return to Burgoyne’s camp.

The distance was so great--nearly forty miles--and their pace so slow,
that it was not till the dawn of the following day that they came in
sight of the English army, and started to hear the first guns of the
decisive battle of Bemis’ Hights, better known as Saratoga.

Sir Francis Clark started when he heard the sound, and when a second
report came booming through the woods, he gathered up his reins, turned
to Butler hastily, and said:

“Excuse me, colonel. Bring on the party as slowly as you like. _My_
duty takes me to the General.”

Then waving his hand, he struck spurs into his thoroughbred, and
galloped off down the road, at full speed, toward the sound of the
distant firing.

Butler hardly seemed to notice his departure or the firing. The whole
air of the man was that of gloomy depression, with a certain expectant
apprehensive look, as if fearing coming evil. He rode slowly on, while
the sound of the cannon became more frequent, sounding dull and hollow
behind the encircling woods.

The men behind him conversed together in whispers. They did not seem
to have the eagerness of Sir Francis Clark to go into the battle. Old
soldiers seldom do. They know too well what is coming. The German
dragoons that followed Butler were all veterans, and though they would
go into any danger unmurmuringly, there was a kind of stolid caution
about them that prevented any eagerness.

Besides, the gradual approach, at a slow pace, to a battle, that one
hears, but cannot see, especially if the prospect is limited by woods
in all directions, is peculiarly depressing to the boldest spirits, and
causes unwonted silence to most men, who would march gayly on, in an
open country.

Thus the dragoons following Butler ceased to converse at all, and
pressed silently on behind their dogged leader, who took his way
forward on the narrow, dusty road, the boom of guns growing more and
more frequent, and answered by the more distant reports of the cannon
from the intrenchments of Gates.

At last, an opening appeared in the trees ahead, and a white cloud of
smoke was visible, hanging in the air over a stubble field, beyond
which a little brown house nestled in the corner of a wood.