XIII.

BENNINGTON.


The stars were shining bright and clear in the heavens, where the gray
light of early dawn was beginning to pale a few on the eastern horizon,
and the remains of the rain-clouds were driving toward the sea under
the chilly north-west wind that ended the rain-storm.

A numerous force of men lay clustered in bivouac round the smoking
camp-fires, and at one fire, separated from the rest, General Stark was
walking to and fro, talking to Adrian Schuyler.

“And you say the girl galloped away from you, and would not even give
you her name?” he said, inquiringly.

“True, General.”

“Why didn’t you chase her and bring her in?”

“For two reasons, General. First, she had just rendered us an important
service. Secondly, her horse was too quick for any except mine.”

“Umph! sorry for it. Never mind, she’s a friend of yours, any way,
and we’ll pay her for it, Schuyler, if she comes around. But you
have brought me good news. I’ll have those fellows before the sunset
to-night, and Burgoyne may whistle for his rations.”

At that moment the clear note of a bugle, a little distance off, rose
sweetly over the silent landscape, blowing the reveille, and Stark
paused and consulted his watch, with a low chuckle, saying:

“I tell you what, Cap, our boys may not be as smart-looking as your
Prussians, but you’ll find them pretty prompt for all that. I don’t
believe your great Frederick could put his men under arms any quicker
than Jack Stark puts his Green-Mountain Boys into the ranks. Look
there.”

Adrian looked round, and smiled in approbation.

At the close of the long-call the whole bivouac had changed its
appearance as if by magic, and where there had been rows of slumbering
figures, now stood long ranks of armed men, rapidly assuming the order
of perfectly straight lines. The voices of the sergeants calling the
rolls rose on the morning air before all the bugles had ceased blowing,
and the camp assumed an appearance of order and bustle, not often seen
outside of regular troops.

Schuyler expressed his surprise at the discipline exhibited after so
short a training, and Stark abruptly broke him off.

“No wonder, lad, no wonder. These are not German louts picked up
anywhere, with heads like oxen. These are free men, come down from the
times of Cromwell, with hardly a change. It needs only that they should
see the necessity of order, and they’ll come to it, fast enough. Ha!
what’s that?”

His last words were elicited by the sound of a shot coming from the
picket-line, closely followed by two more. In a moment Adrian Schuyler
was on his feet, and standing close to his horse, which was tied to a
tree near by. The little squad of rangers under his orders, the only
cavalry in Stark’s command, was already ranged near by, answering
roll-call; and the captain sprung on his horse, with the intention of
calling them out, when the voice of Stark prevented him.

“Let it go, Cap. ’Tis but a single man, coming this way!”

Adrian followed the General’s pointing finger, and distinguished the
outline of a galloping horseman, rapidly approaching the fire in the
gray dawn.

Presently up dashed a man on a black horse, and halted suddenly in
front of the fire. Of his figure all that could be seen was a shadow
in a loose cloak, and a shadowy hat was slouched over a face of marble
paleness.

The strange horseman addressed himself to General Stark, as directly as
if he knew him well, saying in a deep, hollow voice:

“John Stark, if you wish to save your country, march on the enemy
at once. Reinforcements are coming up, and will be here by sunset.
Exterminate what are here, before the others come up, and God speed
you. Farewell.”

Then, before even the quick-witted General could guess his intention,
he was off, and galloping through the camp at full speed. Stark shook
his head as he looked after him.

“Yonder goes a strange man,” he said to Adrian, “and if I did not know
him, I should say a spy.”