He had not long to wait. There came the sound of a hoof striking the
hard quartz of the ridge, then the thud of galloping feet. The express
rider tensed his muscles. He was like a coiled spring as he crouched
back of the boulder, a menace to life as deadly as a rattlesnake about
to strike.

Smoothly he slid round the edge of the rock. The Piute, taken by
surprise, jerked the buckskin sideways and tried to raise his rifle.
Lightning flashed from McClintock’s six-shooter—once, twice. He dived
forward and caught the bridle just as the redskin tumbled from the
horse. The rifle clattered to the ground.

Hugh took one look at the Indian. It was enough. He would never steal
another horse from the whites. The buckskin, frightened, tried to jerk
away. Its new owner spoke gently, soothingly. He coaxed the startled
animal to the rock and transferred the saddle from the back of Nevada
Jim.

Already he could hear approaching horses. As rapidly as possible he
cinched and swung astride. Yet an instant, and he was galloping down the
western slope.

As he looked back, McClintock saw an Indian’s head and the upper part of
his body rising and falling with the stride of a horse. He was the first
of the pursuers coming up into the pass. There was a shout and the sound
of a shot. A bullet struck a spurt of sand from the ground some yards
ahead of the express rider. Other shots came, a scattering volley of
them. Hugh had thrust his smoking revolver back into the scabbard. He
did not attempt to draw it again. The primary business of the moment was
to get the buckskin into its stride and widen the distance between him
and his enemies.

Soon he was out of range. Bullets were still falling, but they struck
the dust behind him. The buckskin was fast and willing. Nevada Jim, like
many of the company horses, had a cross of Morgan blood. This horse was
a mustang, but it had unusual speed and power. Hugh wondered whether the
ranchman who had owned it had been killed when his place was raided.

The pursuit continued for several miles, but the Indians fell always
farther to the rear. At last they dropped out. At least Hugh saw them no
more.

It was time. McClintock was faint and dizzy. He could barely stick to
the saddle by clinging with both hands to the pommel. His wound,
irritated by the constant motion, hurt a great deal. The fever mounted
in his blood.

The amber dawn gave place to clear day. The sun climbed high in the
heavens. It was noon when the buckskin picked its way through the East
Walker River to the west bank.

The boy could go no farther. He slid down, tied the horse, and staggered
to the water. An odd lightheaded feeling lifted him from the ground, it
seemed. He floated, imponderable, on waves of air resonant with music.
Then he passed out of all sensation whatever into unconsciousness.

He came to life again placidly and without energy. When he roused
himself to think about it his body was singularly inert. It was almost
as though it were a thing apart from himself, did not belong to him at
all. He tried heavily with his hand to brush away the cobwebs from his
mind. Then slowly he remembered what had taken place.

The buckskin was still standing patiently beside the willow to which he
had tied it. The sun was beginning to slant from the west.

Slowly he undressed himself in part, washed the wound with clean water,
and tied it up with a bandage torn from his clothing. His fever was
high, and he bathed his face in the cold water fresh from the mountain
snows.

He was in no condition to travel, but he knew he would have to stick to
the saddle till he reached a settlement. Even if the Indians had given
up the chase, he could not lie here without food, shelter, or attention
to his wound. When he rose to drag himself to the horse it took all his
grit to set his teeth on the pain that went through him like a knife
thrust. He could not hold his body erect without agony.

Somehow he reached the buckskin and pulled himself to the saddle. He
held the pony to a walk, because this jolted his side less than any
other gait. His mind refused to consider the long hours he must spend on
the rack of torture. Every moment was sufficient to itself. He would set
landmarks for himself. That scrub cottonwood by the river must be
passed. When that had been reached a bunch of greasewood ahead became
his goal. So, mile by mile, in a growing delirium, he kept going till he
was far up in the Pine Nut Range.

He lost count of time and of distance. He forgot where he was travelling
or why. He remembered only Indians, and the fear he had resolutely
repressed—which no doubt had been uppermost all the time in the boy’s
subconscious mind—expressed itself in the babbling of his delirious
talk.