Mrs. Budd met them at the front door and hustled Hugh quickly into the
house. “I’ve just had a message from Jim. There’s a warrant out for your
arrest. It’s for killin’ Sam Dutch, I expect. Who ever heard the like?
But Jim’s got to serve it, he says. So I’m to hide you in the attic.
When he comes he’ll look for you and won’t find you.”

“What’s the use? If they’ve got a warrant out for me they’ll get me
sooner or later. The verdict of the coroner’s jury was that Dutch came
to his death at the hands of God. It’s some trick. They can’t make it
stick.”

“That’s what Jim says. It’s a trick. Irish Tom told him there is
something in the air. He doesn’t know just what. But the Dodsons are
back of it. So Jim says for you to lie low and see what happens.”

“All right, Mrs. Budd. We’ll let Jim run this,” Hugh said. “I’m in the
hands of my friends, like the willin’ candidates for office say they
are.”

“Supper’ll be ready in a little. I’ll have Bennie watch the road so as
to give you time to get upstairs if any one comes. I expect you’re
hungry.”

“I’m always hungry when Mrs. Budd gives me an invitation to eat,” he
answered, smiling. “She’s the best cook in Nevada, and a two-bit
restaurant doesn’t draw me a-tall on those glad occasions.”

It was on the tip of Mrs. Budd’s sharp tongue to say that the company at
her table might have something to do with that, but since she was
manœuvring to bring about a certain match between two young people
present she refrained from comment.

Hugh did very well on steak, roast wild duck, potatoes, home-made bread,
honey, and dried-apple pie. It is probable that he did not enjoy himself
less because a young woman sat opposite him whose dark eyes flashed soft
lights of happiness at him and whose voice played like sweet music on
his heart.

Mrs. Budd was urging on him another piece of pie when Bennie ran in with
news.

“Dad’s comin’ down the road with two other men,” he shouted in a lifted
key of youthful excitement.

Hugh retired to the garret.

Sheriff Budd came wheezing into the house followed by his deputies.
“Seen anything of Hugh McClintock?” he asked his wife.

“Where would I see him? I haven’t been out of the house,” his plump
helpmate answered tartly.

“Well, I got to search the house. Some folks seem to think he’s here.”

“What’s he done?” asked Vicky.

“Why, he kidnapped that good kind citizen Sam Dutch, a man who hadn’t
murdered but fourteen or fifteen people, and who never packed more’n two
guns an’ a pig-sticker at one time,” the sheriff said dryly. “Such
lawlessness sure ought to be punished severe. I’d say send this
McClintock fellow to Congress or somethin’ like that. Make a sure enough
example of him.”

Jim waddled into the dining room. His eye fell on the devastation of the
supper table. If he noticed the extra plate at the table he made no
comment upon it. Neither did the deputies. The sheriff had hand-picked
them carefully. Little Bennie followed, wriggling with excitement. Up to
date this was the big adventure of his young life.

Jim’s eyes asked a question of his wife and received an answer. He
learned from the wireless that had passed between them that his
instructions had been carried out.

“Look through the kitchen and the hen house, boys,” the sheriff gave
orders. “Then we’ll move upstairs. I don’t reckon he could be here
without Mrs. Budd knowin’ it. But the way to make sure is to look.”

They presently trooped upstairs. While the deputies were searching the
bedrooms Budd puffed up to the garret. In order to establish his
identity he sang a solo:

“Old dog Tray ever faithful
Grief cannot drive him away.
He’s gentle and he’s kind,
And you’ll never, never——”

The sheriff opened the door of the attic and stepped in. Hugh was
straddling a chair with his elbows across the back of it. He grinned at
his friend.