Dutch was slipping out of his long army coat when there came a gentle
tap—tap—tap at one of the windows. The big bulk of a man stood
crouched, eyes glaring, head thrust forward, every sense alert to meet
the danger which threatened. He slid out of the coat and dragged a
revolver from his hip.

Again there came a slow tap—tap—tap, this time on the opposite window.
With incredible swiftness Dutch whirled and fired. His gun was still
smoking when the tap—tap—tap, clear and measured, sounded a second
time at the first window. Straight at the sound the killer flung another
shot. He rushed to the window and drew back the sack used for a curtain.
There was nobody at the window either alive or dead, nor was it possible
for anybody to have slipped away in that second between the sound of the
tapping and the moment when Dutch had torn aside the sack.

As he stood there, frightened and bewildered, there came a sound that
turned his flesh to goose-quills. Down the wind was borne a sobbing
scream like the wail of a lost soul. Dutch knew that no human voice had
uttered that cry. It rose and fell, died down, broke out again, weird
and unearthly as a banshee’s whimper.

Tiny beads of perspiration stood out on the man’s forehead. His hands
shook. He had no thought but that his call from the world beyond had
come, and with the blood of a dozen men on his atrophied conscience he
yielded to the rising tide of terror in him.

The slow tap—tap—tap sounded a third time on the window.

The gun-fighter trembled. “Goddlemighty, Bill, I—I done got my call.”

Buckley felt none too comfortable himself, but he managed a laugh. “Sho,
Sam! Nothin’ but the wind.”

“The wind can’t tap on the window for me, can it? It can’t——”

The sentence died out, for a second time the ululation of that sobbing
shriek came faintly.

Dutch collapsed on a cot, covering his ears with his hands. The man was
of a low order of intelligence, as full of superstition as a plantation
Negro. His mind did not even seek for a rational explanation of the
phenomena that startled him. He was a coward of conscience. The clock
was striking twelve o’clock for him. He accepted that without debate.

With an uneasy glance at the window Buckley offered such sorry comfort
as he could. “The wind plays damn queer tricks, Sam. You buck up an’ get
a bottle out. We’ll play seven up for a spell.”

A high mocking laugh, thin and sinister, trembled out of the night as
though in answer to Buckley’s suggestion. The two men looked at each
other. Each read fear in the eyes facing his.

“It—that sounded like—like Al Morford the day I shot him,” gasped
Dutch, clutching at his companion’s sleeve. “He—he was laughin’ at me
when I drew on him and asked him where he’d have it.”

“You don’t want to get to thinkin’ about that now, Sam,” advised
Buckley, moistening his dry lips with the tip of his tongue. “Let’s hit
the grit back to the Glory Hole. We’ll feel better once we get outside
of a few drinks.”

“He—said he’d come back an’ ha’nt me,” whispered the man killer
abjectly. “Said it while they was takin’ his boots off, right before he
passed in his checks.”

“Al Morford’s been dead an’ buried for years,” said the other man
shakily. “Forget him. An’ le’s get outa here, sudden.”

Another wail soughed down from the gorge. Dutch shook like an aspen.
“I—I can’t go out—there.”

“You gonna stay here all night? I ain’t.” Buckley mopped the sweat from
his forehead and drew a revolver. He trod softly to the door, then
turned to his companion. “Come on, Sam.”

Buckley had no mind to take the night walk alone, nor had Dutch the
courage to stay without his ally. The big ruffian, his nerves a-quiver,
crept after the other man.

They slipped from the cabin toward the road. A gust of wind swept the
gulch, bringing with it a menacing jangle of horrible laughter. The
fugitives threw away the remnant of their pride and stumbled through the
sagebrush at a run. Their hearts were in their throats. When they looked
back it was with the expectation of seeing hobgoblins burst from the
chaparral in pursuit.

Presently Hugh McClintock stole up to the cabin and removed a tick-tack
from each of the shattered windows. He cut down from the scrub pine at
the mouth of the gorge a kind of æolian harp he had made out of violin
strings and a soap box. The wind, whistling through this, had given out
the weird wail which had shaken the nerves of Dutch. The falsetto
laughter had been an histrionic effort of Hugh’s own vocal cords. It
happened that just now his voice was changing.