-----

“O’ course you could buy the other fellow’s interest in the dog and then
kill it,” pursued the literal-minded one. “No objection to that, I
reckon.”

“Yes, I could do that—if someone would lend me the money. But I
wouldn’t, come to think of it.” Clemens brightened up till he was almost
cheerful. “I’d give the dog to you, Hank.”

Attracted by the lank stranger’s dry humour, Hugh reached for a
three-cornered stool and started to sit down. He changed his mind
abruptly. Out of a saloon next door, named the Glory Hole from Aurora’s
famous treasure lode, a big bearded man in an army coat came slouching.
It was the first time Hugh had seen Sam Dutch since their meeting at the
Crystal Palace.

The boy stood, slightly crouched, his right thumb hitched lightly in the
pocket of his trousers. Every nerve was taut as a fiddle string. The
eyes of McClintock, grown hard as quartz, did not waver a hair’s
breadth.

Dutch stood in front of the saloon a moment, uncertain which way to
turn. He came toward the little group before the store. Apparently he
was in arrears of sleep, for a cavernous yawn spread over and wrinkled
his face.

The yawn came suddenly to a period and left the man gaping, his mouth
ludicrously open. Evidently he was caught by complete surprise at sight
of young McClintock.

“You here!” he presently growled.

Hugh said nothing. There is strength in silence when accompanied by a
cold unwinking gaze.

Dutch made a mistake. He delivered an ultimatum.

“Twenty-four hours. I’ll give you twenty-four hours to get out. If
you’re here then——” The threat needed no words to complete it.

Without lifting his eyes from the killer Hugh sidestepped to the middle
of the road. If bullets began to fly he had no desire to endanger the
bystanders.

“I’ll be here,” he said crisply. “If you feel that way, no use waiting
twenty-four hours. Come a-shootin’.”

McClintock had no wish to start trouble. If he had known that Dutch was
coming out of the Glory Hole he would have quietly absented himself. But
the other man had forced the issue. The boy knew that any proposal to
talk over the difficulty would have been regarded as a sign of weakness
and would have precipitated an attack. Wherefore he had flung out his
bold challenge.

The Chief of Main Street was startled. Some months since, this boy had
tossed a defiance in his teeth. Before he had had time to draw a weapon
two bullets had crashed into him. The psychology of a killer is
peculiar. Down in the bottom of his heart he is as full of superstitions
as a gambler. Dutch was no coward, though he fought like a wolf outside
of the code that governed more decent men. But he was not used to men
like the McClintocks. Other men, when he raved and threatened, spoke
humbly and tried to wheedle him back to good humour. In the very silence
with which these two faced him was something menacing and deadly that
paralyzed his fury.

“Not now. Give you twenty-four hours,” the big man snarled through his
beard. He used the fighting epithet, applying it to Scot McClintock.
“Like yore brother did me when I was feelin’ sick an’ triflin’ an’ all
stove up. Get out. Hit the trail on the jump. Or I’ll sure collect you,
kid or no kid.”

“You’re wasting time,” Hugh said quietly.

The killer raved. He cursed savagely. But he did not draw his
six-shooter. The man had his crafty reasons. This youngster was chain
lightning on the shoot. The evidence of this was scarred on the body of
Dutch. Moreover, he could probably take the boy at disadvantage
later—get him from behind or when he came into a room dazed from the
untempered light outside.

Spitting his warning, Dutch backed into the Glory Hole. “Not room for
you’n me here both. Twenty-four hours. You done heard me.”

The red-shirted miner Hank turned beaming on McClintock. He could
appreciate this, though Clemens’s humour was too much for him. “You
blamed li’l’ horn toad, if you didn’t call a bluff on Dutch and make it
stick.”

He used the same epithet that the desperado had just employed, but as it
fell from his lips the sting of it was gone. A few years later a senator
from the sagebrush state had occasion to explain away this expression on
the floor of the upper house of Congress. His version of it was that
this was a term of endearment in Nevada. Sometimes it was. Then, again,
sometimes it was not.