He considered this gravely. “Maybe so. I’m prejudiced against him on
account of his brother.”

“But that’s no fair,” the girl cried quickly.

“And because of two or three things I’ve known him do.”

“What things?” she demanded.

Hugh did not care to discuss with Vicky the man’s amours. He shifted
ground. “He’s selfish through and through. Thinks only of himself.”

The girl’s eyes sparkled. “When you say that it just shows how little
you know him. He’s the most generous man I ever met.”

“He’s good lookin’, and he’s hail fellow enough. That’s not what I
mean.”

“And it’s not what I mean,” she retorted, her temper beginning to rise.
“Two or three months ago he did the bravest thing I ever saw—risked his
life for hours in a caved tunnel, to save the life of a ragged little
boy. Was that selfish? Was that thinking only of himself?”

“He’s game. He’ll go through,” admitted Hugh. “I didn’t mean that way.”

Her stormy eyes challenged him. “Then just what _do_ you mean?”

Hugh flushed. He did not find it possible to tell her explicitly just
what he did mean. It was bad enough for him to be violating the
masculine instinct against exposing another man to one of the opposite
sex. He could not draw a bill of particulars about Dodson before an
innocent girl. Moreover, what he had heard of the man’s escapades was
merely town gossip—true enough, he felt sure, but not evidence that
could be held good before an ardent young advocate like Vicky.

“He’s not very scrupulous some ways,” he said lamely.

“What ways?”

McClintock felt himself being driven into a blind alley. He could not go
on, nor could he turn back.

“I wouldn’t want a sister of mine to know him too well,” was the best he
could do by way of explanation.

“That’s merely an expression of a personal feeling,” she flashed. “And
since I’m not your sister it does not weigh with me. You come here and
attack my friend. You say he’s selfish and—unscrupulous. I ask for
facts to back what you’ve said.”

Though he had been put helplessly in the wrong, Hugh felt that he was
right at bottom. Vicky had no business to have this fellow on the list
of her friends. He tried to break from the logic of the position into
which she had forced him by an appeal to their old friendship.

“I used to have a little partner named Vicky Lowell. We did not see much
of each other, but we were tillicums. Oughtn’t I to warn her when I see
her going with the wrong kind of man?”

“And oughtn’t I to ask you to _prove_ to me he’s the wrong kind? Or must
I take it for granted and give up any of my friends if you happen not to
fancy them?”

“I tell you he isn’t right—not right for a girl like you to know.”

“You admit yourself you’re prejudiced.”

“Not about that. If you’ll let me, I’ll call his hand for a showdown.
Let him prove to me he’s been slandered and I’ll——”

Vicky exploded. “If you dare, Hugh McClintock! Did Scot appoint you
deputy guardian of me? Do you think I can’t look after myself? Do you
think you can come here and slander my friends——?” She broke off,
white with anger.

He gave up, with a helpless lift of his hands. “I made a mistake. Sorry.
I believe every word I’ve said, but I reckon I blundered somehow. I
meant the best ever, Vicky, but—oh, well, you can’t see it my way. I’ll
say good-evenin’.”

Hugh rose. He offered his strong brown hand and with it a smile that
asked for forgiveness.

She hesitated. Her anger at him was not yet spent.

From the next room came Jim Budd’s wheezy refrain, tuneless and
monotonous:

“Old dog Tray ever faithful,
Grief cannot drive him away.
He’s gentle and he’s kind,
And you’ll never, never find
A better friend than old—dog—Tray.”