They discussed ways and means. If possible, they meant to get back their
property without bloodshed.

“If this was Sloan’s play all we’d have to do would be to throw him out.
But there’s brains back of this move. We’re dealin’ with Ralph Dodson.
If we gain possession we still have the courts to reckon with. So we’ve
got to move carefully and see we don’t blunder into any mistake,” Hugh
said.

“You’re shoutin’, Kid,” the sheriff agreed. “It wouldn’t he’p us a whole
lot to go up to the Supreme Court with two-three killings on the record
against our title.”

They slept on their problem and discussed it again next day. Hugh sent
to Virginia City for Scot and a good lawyer. There were more
conferences. Out of them came one or two decisions. Scot, Hugh, and
their lawyer called at the office of the Katie Brackett and asked to see
Ralph Dodson. He was out, but his brother Robert was in. At first he
refused to meet them, but his visitors were so insistent that they would
not take no for an answer.

Dodson had them admitted to his office. Sloan sat beside him. Another
gunman was in the room. From the yellow-gray eyes of the mine owner a
furtive look slid round at the McClintocks and their lawyer.

“Now, looky here, Browning,” he said irritably to the lawyer, “there’s
no manner o’ use in you pesterin’ me. See Ralph. He’ll talk turkey with
you. I got nothin’ to do with this.”

“All we want is to see the paper you and Singlefoot Bill signed up.
We’re entitled to see it. You’ve jumped the Ground Hog and other claims
owned by my group of clients. We’d like to look over your title. Of
course we’re all anxious to avoid trouble. The only way to do that is to
let us know where you stand.”

Dodson listened sourly. But he was not a fool. He knew Browning could
get a court order to look at the paper. There was no real objection to
it, and when one is playing an underhanded game it is better to give an
impression of bluff frankness.

“You’ll gimme yore word not to keep the paper nor to injure it—you or
yore clients either?”

“Of course. This is business, not highway robbery.”

Dodson shot a slant look of warning at Sloan and went to the safe. He
returned with a sheet of foolscap paper upon which had been written an
agreement by which William Thornton, known as Singlefoot Bill,
relinquished all rights in certain designated patented mining claims on
Bald Knob to Robert and Ralph Dodson in consideration of three thousand
dollars now paid him in hand.

Browning copied the paper exactly, word for word, and comma for comma.
Meanwhile, Sloan, his gun in his hand, watched him and the McClintocks
every second of the time. Both brothers looked the contract over.

The lawyer pushed the paper back to Dodson. “Much obliged. Of course
it’s not worth the price of the ink on it, but you probably won’t be
satisfied of that till the courts have said so.”

“You can bet yore boots we make it good,” retorted Dodson, his dodging
eyes jumping to the men he hated so bitterly.

The three callers left the office. From the time they had entered it
till the time they left, the McClintocks had not said a word except in
asides to their lawyer.

“I don’t know on how solid a foundation their case rests,” Browning said
as they walked along Turkey Creek Avenue. “But it never does to
underestimate your opponents. First, we’ll check up and try to learn if
the claims ever were patented. Then we’ve got to find out all about that
contract, the circumstances under which it was signed, whether there was
any record of it made at Austin. We ought to be able to discover if old
Singlefoot showed any evidence of having money immediately after it was
signed. Think I’ll go to Austin and make some investigations.”

“Yes, let’s get to the bottom of it,” Scot agreed. “It looks fishy to me
that they’d pay Singlefoot three thousand for claims not worth a cent
then.”

“Especially when he had no valid title and all they had to do was to
relocate them,” added Hugh.

“Not like the Dodson way of doing business,” admitted Browning. “I don’t
know where the nigger in the woodpile is, but he’s there somewhere.”

“Think you’d better go to Austin with Mr. Browning, Scot,” Hugh said.
“You have so many friends there you might be able to find out something
important.”