Men breathed again. Their hearts functioned normally once more. Dutch
had chosen to dodge the challenge.

“I dunno as I know more about him than anybody else,” he had growled.

Hugh did not relax the thrust of his eyes. “No? Thought maybe you did. I
found it at the storage warehouse, corner of the alley, up the avenue.
Didn’t leave it there?”

Dutch did not answer at once. Inside, he surged with murderous impulse.
He might beat this fellow McClintock to the draw. He had always boasted
that he wanted no more than an even break with any man alive. Well, he
had it here.

“Who says I left it there?” he demanded.

“I’m asking if you did.”

The killer’s right hand hung motionless. A weight paralyzed his will.
These McClintocks had the Indian sign on him. Deep in him a voice
whispered that if he accepted the challenge he was lost. Better wait and
get this fellow right when he had no chance.

“No-o.” To Dutch it seemed that the husky monosyllable was dragged out
of him by some external force.

Tauntingly the cold voice jeered him. “Not you, then, that bushwhacked
me in the alley and tried to shoot me in the back? Wouldn’t do that,
would you, Dutch? Got all yore fourteen on the level, of course.”

“I aim to—to give every man a show,” the gunman muttered.

“Good of you. Then it couldn’t have been you that threw this knife at me
and tried to gun me. It was dark. I couldn’t make out his face, but I
left the marks of my fist on it a-plenty.”

Now that it seemed there was to be no gun-play the watchers had come
into the open. A battery of eyes focussed on the hammered face of Dutch.
Cut lips, a black eye, purple weals on the forehead, and swollen cheeks
told of recent punishment.

“I fell down a prospect hole,” the bad man mentioned.

A bark of laughter, quickly smothered, met this explanation. Dutch
glared round angrily.

“That prospect hole must have landed on you hard,” Hugh told him grimly.
“Take my advice. _Don’t fall down any more._ Next time the shaft might
shoot a hole through you.”

“I ain’t scared of you none. You can’t run on me,” Dutch growled
sulkily, to save his face. “One o’ these days I’m liable to get tired of
you and feed you to the buzzards.”

“Yes, I know you’re chief here, same as you were at Virginia and Aurora.
But just to show there’s no hard feelings you’ll help Uncle Ned tack up
that poster, won’t you?”

“No.”

“Yes.”

Again Dutch’s sullen eyes battled and were beaten. “I don’t have to,” he
flung out rebelliously.

“Not at all,” Hugh mocked. “But out of good will you’ll do it.”

The ruffian shuffled across the road, snatched a bill from the old
Negro, and with a hammer drove a tack through the middle of it.

Out of the Mammoth walked a big well-dressed man without a hat. He had
black glossy hair and a small black moustache. In his manner and bearing
was that dominance which comes to those who are successful. With a
glance he took in the situation.

“Tear that bill down, Dutch,” he said crisply.

The bad man looked at him, then at McClintock.

Hugh laughed. “You hear yore master’s voice, Dutch.”

Dutch ripped the bill down and tore it into a dozen pieces. Released
from the mastery that had held him, he broke into savage furious oaths.
At a word from the black-eyed man he would have fought it out with his
enemy.

But Ralph Dodson did not speak the word. His frowning attention was
fixed on Hugh.

“Mr. McClintock, the Mammoth is owned by me and my brother. If we want
bills on the walls we’ll put them there. Understand?” he demanded
arrogantly.