XXXIV


THE BALD KNOB STRIKE

The room with the bullet hole in the swing door at the Ormsby House had
become a place of pilgrimage. The proprietor of the hotel and its
patrons pointed it out with pride to strangers and told the story of how
Scot McClintock, left for dead, had come to life by sheer will power and
killed one of the murderers through the door without even seeing him.

In Scot’s actions there had always been a quality which distinguished
them from those of other men. He had the gift of the heroic
touch—somehow struck from men’s imaginations a spark of fire. His
gaiety and spirit, the sunny grace of his bearing, made for romance.

The affair at the Ormsby House capped the climax. It bordered on the
Homeric. To be taken at advantage by the two most redoubtable killers of
the West, to be shot through and through and left for dead, and to take
immediate vengeance on one of them under almost impossible circumstances
was a combination of dramatic effect so unusual as to pinnacle even
Colonel McClintock.

But it had remained for Hugh to write the last act of the drama. He
found men looking at him with a new respect. Even old friends showed a
slight deference. It was not only that he had killed in a duel the
terrible Dutch, though this in itself was a sufficient exploit. The
manner in which justice had at last found the killer satisfied men’s
sense of fitness. The story was told everywhere, and with a touch of
awe, that Father Marston had prophesied to Dutch the swift avengement of
God. On the heel of that prediction the lightnings had flamed from Hugh
McClintock’s revolver.

That Hugh had been the instrument of justice was felt to be especially
meet. He had dragged back to Carson, from the pit of hell where he had
been buried, the attempted murderer of his brother. He had struck with
such deadly accuracy that any one of the three bullets flung by him
would have been fatal.

Without intention on his part, Hugh’s subsequent conduct increased the
respect in which he was held. He refused to be lionized, declined even
to tell the story of the killing except to the coroner’s jury.
Inevitably there began to rise a legend of the prowess of the
McClintocks which cast a spell over romantic minds.

The immediate result was that Scot was elected secretary of state by the
largest majority in the history of Nevada. When he was sworn into office
the management of the firm’s business devolved wholly upon Hugh. The
Virginia & Truckee railroad was partly completed. Within a few years
fifty or sixty trains a day would be twisting to and fro over the most
tortuous bit of track in the United States. The McClintocks saw the
handwriting on the wall and began to reduce the number of their teams,
ore wagons, and freight outfits.

From Piodie came a telegram to Hugh. It was signed by Jim Budd, newly
elected sheriff of that county:

The Ground Hog is on a rampage. Big strike. Come at once.

Hugh found Piodie buzzing with excitement. The strike on Bald Knob
aroused keen interest because this was a new field. There had been a
good deal of development work done there, but the Ground Hog strike was
the first worth-while one that had been made. Prospectors stampeded for
the scene and located every unoccupied inch for miles. The wiser heads
besieged the owners of claims on the Knob for leases.

Byers drove Hugh out to Bald Knob, and the two looked over the Ground
Hog together. If the assays that had been made held good in general,
they estimated that from ten to fifteen thousand dollars’ worth of ore
had been raised within the week from the shaft. Afterwards Hugh visited
the claims held by himself, Scot, and Vicky, to make sure that the
assessment work had been properly done. He knew that if there was any
excuse for it whatever somebody would jump these claims. He decided that
the best thing to do would be to get leasers on the properties as soon
as possible, for if possession is not nine points of the law it is at
least one or two points.

“I want to tell you that yore claims would have been jumped before
this,” Sheriff Budd told Hugh later with a wise nod of his head, “if it
hadn’t been that you McClintocks are such darned go-getters nobody
wanted to take a chance.”

“How about Miss Lowell’s claim?” asked Hugh.

“Well, she’s done a heap of work on it. I don’t reckon any one could
hardly get away with it, her bein’ so popular here, too, an’ a lone,
defenceless girl at that. Piodie would be liable to rare up on its hind
laigs an’ say, ‘Hands off!’ But it’s different with you an’ Scot.
Someone with guts is apt to jump them claims any minute.”