His fingers moved up to the fleshy part of the girl’s forearm and
tightened. She could not keep back a cry of pain.

Marston stepped forward. He had served through the war as a chaplain and
the spirit of a soldier was in him.

“Hands off, Dutch!”

The teeth of the bad man ground together audibly. “You sittin’ in,
Parson?” he asked in a thick, furious voice.

“Yes. Take your hands off her.”

The gaunt gray-eyed preacher faced the killer’s rage and overmatched it.
He had both moral courage and the physical to back it.

“Where’s Scot McClintock?” demanded Dutch.

“We’ll take that up when you’ve turned Miss Lowell loose.”

“By God, you’re not runnin’ this.”

“Get your hand away.”

The bully felt that he either had to kill this man or do as he said. He
dare not shoot him down. Father Marston was too well beloved in Nevada.
His was one of those staunch souls which commanded an immense respect.
Back of him now the gunman felt the whole weight of civilized opinion in
the state. It was a spiritual power too potent to be ignored.

The fingers loosened from Vicky’s arm and fell away.

“Where’s McClintock at?” the man with the revolver asked again hoarsely.

“First tell me this. What are you doing here? Why aren’t you in prison
where you belong?”

“Because I broke out. Tha’s why.”

“Then I’ll give you a piece of advice. Get out of town. Now. Quick as
you can hit the road.”

“I’m askin’ you where McClintock’s at, Parson.”

Again the eyes of the two battled.

“Sam Dutch, your name stands in this country for murder, treachery,
drunkenness, and all other evils known to man. You’re as black-hearted a
villain as ever I knew. If you’ve got one redeeming trait I don’t know
what it is. Now, listen. You’re going to get out of town now. Right
away. You’re not going to murder Scot McClintock. You’ll walk with me
straight to Doc Benton’s stable. You’ll arrange with him for a horse.
And you’ll drop into the saddle and light a shuck out of Carson.” The
voice of the preacher rang harsh. It carried conviction, but Dutch
wanted to know what was back of this edict.

“Who says I’ll do all that?” he sneered.

“I say it. If you don’t I’ll rouse the town and hang you in front of the
jail. That’s a promise made before God, Dutch. I’ll keep it, so help
me.”

The killer’s mind dodged in and out cunningly and could find no way of
escape. He dared not kill Marston. He dared not let him go out and rouse
the town against him. Though he was armed and Marston was without a
weapon, it was he who was defenceless and the preacher who held him
covered.

The bad man threw up his hands. “All right. You got me, Parson. I’ll
light a shuck, but God help you if I ever get you right. I’ll sure fix
you so you’ll never do me another meanness.”

The preacher stood before him straight as a sycamore.

“My life is in God’s hand, Sam Dutch. You strut across the stage of
life, poor braggart, and think yourself mighty powerful. You’re no more
than a straw in the wind. His eye is on you, man. You can’t lift a
finger without His permission. And in His scripture He has said a word
about you. ‘Whoso sheddeth man’s blood, by man shall his blood be shed.’
And again, ‘All they that take the sword shall perish with the sword.’
That’s His plain promise, Dutch. I tell you that your hour is close.
It’s at hand. Repent and flee from the wrath to come.”

Marston had the orator’s gift of impressive speech. As he faced the
killer, hand lifted in a gesture of prophecy, eyes flashing the fire of
his conviction, Vicky felt a shiver run over her. The preacher was, so
she felt for the moment, a messenger of destiny pronouncing doom upon a
lost soul. In the light of what so swiftly followed she was to recall
many times his burning and passionate prediction.