XXIX


VICKY FINDS A WAY

Vicky, in her bedroom at Mrs. Budd’s, flogged herself with a whip of
scorn. She had acted on imperative impulse, just as she used to do when
she was a little girl. Her cheeks flamed again when she recalled what
the Irishwoman had said. Of course! Everybody would think she had done
it because she was in love with Hugh McClintock.

Savagely she mocked her own heroics. She had behaved ridiculously. There
was no excuse for her at all. Probably Hugh, too, was laughing at her or
else flattering himself that he had made a conquest. Her pride rebelled.
And yet—when she saw again in imagination the group of gunmen under
Sloan moving forward to attack, she knew that she would probably do the
same thing a second time, given the same circumstances.

Mrs. Budd knocked on the door. “Breakfast ready, deary.”

Miss Lowell became aware suddenly that she was very hungry. But she did
not want to meet Jim Budd. He would probably start teasing her, and if
he did she would certainly lose her temper. She fibbed.

“I’m not hungry yet. If you don’t mind I’ll come down and get a bite out
of the pantry later.”

“Mr. McClintock is here. He wants to thank you,” the landlady said
gently.

Hugh McClintock was the last man in the world that Vicky wanted to see
just now, but she would not for a month’s salary have let him know it.

“He needn’t trouble, I’m sure,” she said carelessly. “But I’ll be down
presently.”

She came to breakfast stormy-eyed. Hugh rose to meet her from his seat
next the door. He offered his hand.

For a fraction of a second she looked at it, apparently surprised. It
was as though she said, a little disdainfully, “What’s the use of all
this fuss about nothing?” Then her hand met his.

He said, in a low voice, “Old dog Tray’s mighty grateful, Vicky.”

But he spoke with a smile, words unstressed. She drew a breath of
relief. Hugh understood, anyhow. He was not imagining any foolishness.

“Oh, I didn’t want them to take that villain from you,” she explained.
“I’ll not be satisfied till he’s hanged. What have you heard about
Scot?”

“A telegram last night and one this mo’ning. He’s still holdin’ his own,
the doctors say. But they’re not hopeful. One of the bullets went into
his intestines.”

Tears brimmed her eyes. “Isn’t it dreadful—when people are happy, like
Scot and Mollie, that——”

He nodded, his throat tightening.

“Don’t let these buckwheats get cold,” Mrs. Budd said cheerfully,
bustling in with a hot plateful.

Jim Budd was sitting in the kitchen guarding the prisoner, but Byers,
Hugh, and Vicky, with an occasional word from Mrs. Budd, discussed plans
for getting Dutch to Carson.

Both Hugh and Byers were exhausted. The night through which they had
just come had been a terrible one. Their bodies from which the skin
peeled in flakes at several points of contact with their clothes, were a
torment to them. Eyebrows, eyelashes, and some of the front hair had
crisped away. The faces of both of them were fire-red, and from sunken
sockets blear-eyed old age gazed listlessly. They needed sleep
certainly, medical attention possibly.

The girl’s dark eyes softened as she looked at them. They had fought a
good fight, just as a matter of course and all in the day’s work. She
had been down a mine. Her imagination filled in the horrors of the
fearful hours in that hell’s cauldron from which they had at last
dragged the imprisoned miners.

“Let me send for Doctor Rogers,” she said gently.

“You feelin’ sick, Vicky?” Hugh asked with a flare of humour.

“I mean, to look at you and Mr. Byers.”

“We ain’t much to look at right now. I expect he’d rather see us some
time when we’re not so dog tired. Find us more entertainin’.”