Scot read the note.

Dere Mister Santa Claws,

I got the doll. Thank you very much for it. I like dolls. I am
lerning speling, reading, riting, gography, numbers, grammar,
and deportment. Deportment is when you say thanks to a kind
gentelman for giveing you a doll. We had bluebery pie for
dinner. Do you like bluebery pie? I do. Wel I must close for
this time your greatful little friend Victoria Lowell.

The older brother wiped a smile from his face as he looked at Hugh. The
note was like the little vixen who had written it. She was having her
fun with Hugh, who seemed to have forgotten that in the course of four
years children of Vicky’s sex have a habit of shooting up into young
ladies. A black doll! Well, Hugh had brought it on himself. Scot did not
intend to spoil sport. He told a part of the truth.

“She’s a pretty good match for the black doll herself—the blackest
little thing you ever saw. Hair flies wild. A good deal of long arms and
legs about her. Some whirlwind when she gets started.”

“Always was that,” Hugh said. “I can imagine how she looks. Blueberry
pie painted on her face when she wrote that letter probably.” He shifted
the conversation to business. “Are you going down to Piodie or do you
want me to go?”

Piodie was the newest camp in Nevada. Discovery of ore had just been
made and a stampede for the new diggings was on. They were said to be
very rich in both gold and silver. If this proved true, the handling of
freight to the new camp would be profitable.

“You go, Hugh. I don’t want to leave Mollie just now.”

In the mining country camps have their little day and cease to be. They
wallow in prosperity and never dream of the time when the coyote will
howl in their lonesome streets. A camp which “comes back” is as rare as
a pugilist who recovers a lost championship. Aurora’s star had set. The
live citizens were flitting, and the big mines were pulling their pumps.
The name on every tongue was Piodie.

“All right,” agreed Hugh. “I been wantin’ to have a look at that camp.”

“Take your time. No hurry. Look the ground over carefully. The business
will run right along while you’re away.”

“Hope Mollie gets along fine,” Hugh said awkwardly.

The young man was now a responsible member of a business firm which
handled a large trade. The days when he had ridden pony express, even
the ones when he had left the army with a sergeant’s stripes on his
sleeve, belonged to his adventurous past. Young as he was, Hugh served
on civic committees and attended board of trade banquets. In his heart
sometimes he rebelled. He did not look forward with eagerness to the day
when he would be a leading citizen with an equatorial paunch. The blood
of youth still sang in him a saga of untravelled trails.

Perhaps that was why he chose to ride to Piodie instead of taking a seat
beside “Pony” King on the stage. It was a day of the gods as he rode up
the Geiger Grade from B Street. His lungs drank in the rare air like
wine. The sky was crystal clear except for a long-drawn wisp of cloud
above the summit of Mt. Davidson. Below him a cañon cleft the hills, and
beyond its winding gorge was a glimpse of soft-toned desert through
which ran a gleaming silver ribbon edged with the green of cottonwood
foliage. Far away, at the horizon edge, were white mountain barriers,
the Sierras to the right, the Humboldt and the Pine Nut ranges to the
east.

It was noon when he reached Reno, the new town which had just changed
its name from End-of-the-Track. The Central Pacific, built the previous
year, had brought Reno into existence. It was still a little village. If
any one had predicted then that the day was coming when both Carson and
Virginia would be displaced in importance by the little railroad station
Reno, he would have been judged a poor guesser.

Hugh jogged along at the steady road gait which is neither quite a trot
nor a walk. The miles fell behind him hour after hour. The sun sank into
the hills and left behind it a great splash of crimson glory. This faded
to a soft violet, which in turn deepened to a lake of purple as the
evening shadows lengthened.

The traveller camped in the sage. He scooped out a hole in the soft sand
and built in it a fire of greasewood and brush. This he kept replenished
till it was full of live coals. He knew it would last till morning
without fresh fuel. Supper finished, he rolled up in his blanket and
found for a pillow the softest spot in the saddle.

His brain buzzed with thoughts of the old riding days when life had been
an adventure and not a humdrum business. Into his memory there sang
itself a chantey of the trail. He found himself now murmuring the words
drowsily: