XII


“GIT OUT DE WAY, OLE DAN TUCKER”

Hugh was no hero of romance, but a normal American youth whose education
from childhood had fitted him to meet the emergencies that might
confront him. The school of the frontier teaches self-reliance. Every
man must stand alone. He is judged by the way he assays after the acid
test of danger.

At the Crystal Palace Hugh had not been conscious of any fear. His
brother’s life had depended upon his coolness, the smooth efficiency
with which his nerves and muscles coördinated. Not until after the peril
was past had he felt any hysteria, and then only because he thought he
had killed a man.

The situation was different now. He had to meet alone the most notorious
man killer of Nevada, not when he was strung up for action by the clash
of a sudden encounter, but after a day and night of suspense in which
his imagination would play him unkind tricks and show him ghastly
visions. He saw pictures—horrible pictures in which Dutch loomed up a
huge apelike superman towering over him as a prostrate victim. He saw
himself playing the poltroon, dying, dead, every detail of the scene
sharp as the lines of an etching. The little boy in him—the child that
had for years been dormant—crept out and wailed with fear. Yet all the
time he wore a wooden face that told no tales to curious men who watched
him.

When at last he was alone Hugh did the wisest thing possible. He
borrowed a page instinctively from twentieth-century psychology not then
in vogue. He faced the fact that he was afraid, dragged his fears out
into the open, examined them, and jeered at them.

“What’s ailin’ you, Hugh McClintock?” he demanded of himself. “Ain’t you
got any sand in yore craw a-tall? Who’s Sam Dutch, anyhow? What if he
has got a dozen men? Didn’t he kill half of them when they weren’t
lookin’ for trouble? Didn’t he pick on four flushers who wouldn’t stand
the gaff? Say he is big as all outdoors. Easier to hit, ain’t he? What
do you care if he’s a wild man from Borneo and chews glass, like he
claims? All men are the same size when they get behind a Colt gun.”

He oiled his revolver while he fought out his fears aloud. “Whyfor
should Sam Dutch hang the Indian sign on you? He’s the same scalawag
they had to carry feet first outa the Crystal Palace after you got
through with him. He’s the same false alarm Scot ran outa Virginia not
so long ago. He should do the frettin’, not you.”

With the thought of Scot, courage flowed back into his heart. He knew
that somehow Scot would in his place face this fellow down or blot him
from the map. “Trouble with you is you’re scared, Hugh. But you’re goin’
through, ain’t you? Sure. You got to. Then buck up an’ throw the scare
into the other fellow.”

His mind stuck to that last thought. What were his brains for if he
could not make them more useful than the craft and brutishness of Sam
Dutch? His mind began to work out a practical plan of action. When he
arose from the bench where he sat cleaning the revolver his eyes were
bright and shining. The fear in him, which had for hours been lying like
a heavy weight on his subconscious mind, no longer repressed but frankly
admitted and examined, had now vanished into thin air.

As soon as it was dark Hugh slipped out of his shack and crept along the
side of the gulch toward Main Street. He stopped behind a cabin of
whipsawed lumber and edged forward to the back of it. The hut had one
room. Except the front door there was no way of entrance but by one of
the two windows. Hugh had no intention of entering. He was satisfied
that Dutch would not come home till late. Probably he would bring a
companion with him as a protection against the chance of being ambushed.

For five minutes Hugh worked at one window, then gave his attention to
the other. After this he stole back to the edge of the gulch and busied
himself among the branches of a little scrub tree which stood at the
point of intersection between a small gorge and the main gulch.

Hugh’s guess had been a good one. It was close to one o’clock in the
morning when Dutch returned to his cabin. With him was a companion whom
Hugh, lying huddled in the sage close to the cañon’s rising slope,
recognized as William Buckley, one of Sam’s boon toadies.

The man killer took no chances, at least no more than were necessary. It
was quite on the cards, as he understood the business of murder, that
his foe might lie in wait for him and shoot from ambush. He did not come
down the road, but by way of an alley that brought him to the rear of
his shanty. Quickly and stealthily the two men dodged inside. Once in,
Dutch bolted the door and pulled the window blinds. Before going to bed
he moved both cots so as to put them out of range of one who might crawl
up to either window and take a wild shot at the place where one of the
beds had been.