Three slow taps rose from the floor. Dutch gasped. Those taps had always
heralded disaster for him.

Vicky drew a knife from his boot and a revolver from the belt he was
wearing. She dropped them on the floor.

“Walk to the door,” she ordered. “Go outside. If you come in before I
call you I’ll shoot holes in you.”

She hardly recognized her own voice. There was in it a new note. She
knew that if he refused to go she would kill him as she would a wolf.

Dutch whined. “You wouldn’t drive me into the storm after I done took
you in an’ fed you, miss. There can’t any one live in that blizzard. I
was jest a-funnin’ about him. Jest my li’l way.”

“Go on,” she told him inexorably. “Now.”

He went. She closed the door behind him.

McClintock crept toward the fire. Vicky gathered the weapons and put
them down beside her. Then she took one of his hands in hers and began
to rub it to restore circulation. She worked on the other hand, on his
ears, his face, his throat. She helped him to take off his boots and in
spite of his protests massaged his frozen feet.

The pain was intense as the circulation began to be renewed in his body.
He clamped his teeth to keep back the groans. He walked up and down
nursing his hands and his ears. But not a sound came from his lips.

“I know it’s awful,” Vicky comforted. “But the pain’s a good sign. Soon
as it’s gone you’ll be all right.”

He grinned. There was nothing to do but endure until the circulation was
fully restored. He beat the back of his hands against the palms. If
Dutch should grow troublesome he might need the use of his fingers
shortly.

A fist beat on the door.

“Shall I let him in?” the girl asked.

Hugh picked up one of the revolvers and crooked his stiff forefinger
over the trigger. He could make out to use it at a pinch.

“Yes, let him in,” he said.

Vicky took the second revolver. The knife Hugh thrust into one of his
boot legs.

When the girl opened the door Dutch slouched in. He was covered from
head to foot with frozen snow and sleet. His venomous eyes slanted first
at McClintock, then at the young woman. The sullen impotent hatred in
his heart was plain enough to send goose-quills down Vicky’s spine. She
knew that if ever he were top dog it would go hard with her or Hugh.

The man poured out half a tumbler of whisky and drank it neat. He
shuffled up to the fire, taking the opposite side to the one occupied by
his guests. Silently he glared at them. But for the moment he could do
nothing. They were armed. He was not.

Exhausted by his long battle with the storm, Hugh could hardly keep his
eyes open. His worn body called for sleep. But with that wild beast
crouched five feet away he dared not relax his vigilance for a moment.

Vicky whispered in his ear: “Cuddle down in the chair and sleep a while.
I’ll watch him.”

Hugh shook his head. No, that would never do. At some unexpected instant
the killer would fling his huge bulk on her and wrest the revolver from
her hand. Much as his system craved it, Hugh rejected sleep as unsafe.
He would stay awake and protect her.

But even as he was firmly resolving this his eyelids drooped. His head
relaxed against the back of the chair. He made an effort to throw off
the drowsiness pressing him down. It was a feeble and unsuccessful one.
Presently he was sound asleep.

From the summit of Bald Knob the storm swept down with a roar. It hurled
itself into the valley with screams like those of a lost soul. It beat
against the hut in furious gusts, rattling the windows and shaking the
door like some living monster intent on destruction. For hours its rage
continued unabated.

Meanwhile, from opposite sides of the fireplace, the desperado and the
girl watched each other. He had a feral cunning. It had served to keep
him alive more than once when he seemed at the end of his rope. Now he
piled the fuel high in the stone chimney and pretended to go to sleep.

The glow of the heat had the intended effect. It formed an alliance with
Vicky’s fatigue. She, too, began to nod at last, her wariness lulled by
the stertorous breathing of the big huddled figure opposite. The sense
of responsibility was still active in her mind. She decided afterwards
that she must have cat-napped, as drivers do on a long night trip, now
and again for a few seconds at a time.