“Room for both of us,” said Hugh coolly, and he did not give a fraction
of an inch. Instead, he coppered another of the camp bully’s bets,
playing the ace to lose.

“Not room for me an’ you here both. I tell you I’m Sam Dutch.”

Scot slid out the cards. The ace lost.

“Yes, I heard you—no need to shout,” Hugh said tranquilly, reaching for
his winnings.

Dutch brushed his arm aside roughly. He raked in the chips. “I’ll
collect on that ace,” he announced.

“You played it to win and it lost,” Hugh told him.

“Did I?” The killer was dangerously near explosion point. “Don’t forget,
young fella, that I’m chief in this town.”

Hugh looked straight at him, his blue eyes narrowed ever so little. “So?
Who elected you?”

This cool defiance from an unknown smooth-cheeked boy put the match to
the ruffian’s rage. He snatched from his head the Peruvian hat and
stamped it under his feet. His teeth ground savagely. He stooped as
though to leap, and as he did so his fingers closed on the horn handle
of the bowie projecting from his boot leg. The long blade flashed in the
sunlight.

Almost simultaneously a derringer and a navy revolver flamed.

A stupid puzzled expression gathered on the face of the man in the army
overcoat. He seemed to be groping for the meaning of what had happened.
The huge body swayed and the bowie clattered to the floor.

Both brothers watched the killer intently. Neither fired a second shot,
though every sense, nerve, and muscle waited in readiness for instant
action.

Dutch clutched at the faro table with both hands, then unexpectedly
pitched forward upon it, scattering chips and cards in all directions.

From behind the bar, from back of chairs and tables, men cautiously
emerged. Others gathered themselves from the floor where they had been
lying low. The lookout stuck a head carefully through the side doorway.
There would be no more shooting.

Scot spoke quietly. “I take you-all to witness, gentlemen, that he came
here looking for trouble. My brother and I fired in self-defence.”

Someone thrust a hand under the big body and pushed aside the blue coat.
“Heart’s still beating,” he announced.

“Then send for a doctor and have him looked after. I’ll pay the bill,”
Scot said, still in an even expressionless voice.

“Hadn’t you better finish the job?” a voice whispered in Hugh’s ear.

Hugh turned, dizzy with nausea. “God, no!” he answered.

“If he lives he’ll get you sure—both of you.”

“We’re not murderers,” the boy said.

He groped his way to a chair and sat down quickly. Was he going to
faint?

A hand fell on his shoulder. Through a haze Scot’s voice came warm and
low: “Good old Hugh. Saved my life sure. You were that cool—and game.
Every move you made counted. If you hadn’t devilled him till he lost his
head he’d likely have got one of us. Boy, I’m proud of you.”

Hugh was ashamed of his weakness. “I didn’t play the baby this away when
I got that Piute at the pass,” he said apologetically.

“Nothing to it, boy. You came through fine. Except for you—well, I
would have cashed in. Come. Let’s get out of here.”

The owner of the Crystal Palace was standing near.

“Can you get someone else to finish my shift?” Scot asked.

“Sure.” The proprietor did a little legitimate grumbling. “There’s
sixty-five saloons in this town, an’ I’ll be doggoned if everybody
doesn’t come here to do their gun stuff. Seems like a man will walk
clear up from Gold Hill so’s to pull off his fireworks at the Crystal.
It don’t do business no good, lemme tell you.”

“You’re out of luck,” his dealer smiled. “But we couldn’t really help it
this time.”