III


THE NIGHT RIDE

Hugh McClintock drew his horse to a walk and skirted the base of a hill.
He patted the shiny neck of the bay affectionately. The boy loved the
mounts he rode. His life depended on their stamina and speed, and they
had never failed him.

“Good old Nevada Jim,” he whispered. “We got a long trail before us
through these red devils, but I reckon we’re good for it, me ’n you.”

He was swinging well to the south of the Silver Mountains, riding
through country covered with brush. He had been travelling at a rapid
pace as he wound in and out among the sage and greasewood. Now he had
reached the hills that marked the limit of the range. His intention was
to go by way of Alkali Flat, circle Walker Lake, and cross the Walker
River range. This plan was subject to change, for at any minute he might
run into the Piutes. On the other hand, which was more likely, he might
reach Carson without having had a glimpse of them.

Boy though he was, he knew Indians. His father was one of the earliest
pioneers in Eagle Valley. Hugh’s first recollection was of the trip from
Salt Lake through the desert. He recalled that a cow had worked side by
side in the wagon with an ox. The first plough that had broken a furrow
in Nevada had been made by his father from discarded wagon tires picked
up on the overland road to California. He remembered the days when
Captain Jim in beads and buckskin and his breech-clothed tribe had hung
around the settlers in pretended friendship. Tame coyotes instead of
dogs had followed them. There hung in his mind the memory of a morning
when he had gone to the stable to find the horses run off and the cows
stuck full of arrows.

One adventure he would never forget. His mother had wakened him at
midnight and dressed him hurriedly. He and his younger brother had been
packed in apple boxes slung on the opposite sides of a mule. Rifle in
hand, his father had walked beside a second mule upon which Hugh’s
mother rode. So they had crossed the Sierras from Mormon Station into
California, driven from home by the news that the Indians were raiding
the valleys. In his young life he could recall a hundred such memories
of the dangers and hardships of pioneering.

While he was still in the hills the brilliant reds and crimsons of
sunset gave way to the soft violet of dusk, which in turn melted into
the deep purple of falling night. Sometimes, as he wound forward in the
chaparral, he heard the faint rustling of wild shy creatures scurrying
to safety.

The stars had long been out before he reached Alkali Flat. He was far
from any road, but the unerring instinct of the frontiersman took him,
with many twists and turns, in the direction he had chosen. Not long
after midnight he struck Walker Lake. He followed the shore line around
the southern point. On a little peninsula he unsaddled, picketed Nevada
Jim, and slept for nearly two hours.

Darkness was still heavy over the land when he saddled and retied the
mail sacks. He crossed Cat Creek, turned northwest, and began the hill
trek into the Walker River Range.

Light began to filter into a sky that grew less opaque. The hills took
vague outlines. A meadow lark’s piping heralded the advent of the young
day.

He put Nevada Jim at the saddle of a hill and reached the brow that
formed part of the lip of a small saucer-shaped valley beyond. A score
of morning camp-fires shone like glowworms in the misty hollow. By
chance he had stumbled on a party of Piutes who had probably raided a
ranch and come down here to revel undisturbed. Very likely it was the
same bunch that had waylaid and shot Tim. There rose to the express
rider the pungent smell of burning meat, and he guessed that the Indians
were indulging in their favourite feast of roasted horseflesh.

McClintock made to turn back, but as he did so a slim breech-clothed
figure shot up from the sage almost at his stirrup. The rider,
silhouetted against the skyline, was a mark hardly to be missed at such
close range even by a Piute with a trade gun. Hugh dragged Nevada Jim
round with fore feet in air, drove home his spurs, and charged straight
at the brave.

A red-hot stab seared McClintock’s side. A moment, and he felt the shock
of impact. The sentry was flung headlong before the weight of the horse,
which staggered over the naked body, trod it under, and went plunging
down the hill.

Hugh heard guttural shouts of alarm from the valley. Presently, riding
along the arroyo below, he saw horsemen urging their mounts over the
brow of the hill. A shout of triumph told him that he had been seen by
his pursuers.