IX


SCOT TALKS ON MOTHER LOVE

The weeks passed, became months. Spring browned to summer and summer
crisped to autumn. Hugh and Scot saw nothing of each other. The younger
brother had given up riding and joined a gold rush to a new camp; the
older was still dealing faro at the Crystal Palace.

The Dodsons were yet camped on the outskirts of Virginia. The man of the
family spent most of his time hanging around saloons and dance halls.
Rarely he did a day’s work. Usually he secured food and drink for
himself by acting as janitor at some of the places which he frequented.
For weeks at a time his wife never saw him.

Scot McClintock no longer visited the dugout beside the prairie
schooner. The last time he had seen Mollie Dodson was the day when he
had thrashed the bully to whom she was married. He did his kindnesses by
proxy now. The missionary from Buffalo, New York, Calvin Baird by name,
was his deputy in supplying the needs of the Dodson family. Sometimes
Vicky reported to him, but he saw very little even of her.

Then, one day, Vicky came to him at the International Hotel, where he
lived, and sent up word that she wanted to see him. Scot came down and
found the face of his little friend wan and tear-stained.

“What’s wrong, Vicky?” he asked, slipping his arm round her shoulder.

She began to sob, and through her broken words he gathered the story.
Dodson had come home drunk while his wife was getting a bucket of water,
had flung himself on the bed without seeing the baby, and had fallen at
once into heavy stertorous slumber. When Mollie got back the child was
dead, smothered by her own father.

Scot borrowed a horse and rode out at once to the camp. Dodson had
temporarily disappeared, frightened at the horrible thing he had done.
The accident had taken place twelve hours earlier, and the tears of the
mother were for the moment spent. She was dry-eyed and wan, in that deep
despair which is beyond expression, almost beyond feeling. With a
tenderness that set flowing in Scot a wild river of sympathy she drew
back the cotton handkerchief that covered the baby face. For an instant
his heart beat fast. Except for the pallor Virginia looked so natural
she might have been asleep. He half-expected to see the lashes tremble
and the blue eyes open.

McClintock took on himself all the arrangements for the funeral. He
dragged Dodson out of a grog shop, soused his head in a horse trough,
and when he became sober saw that he remained so until the burial.

The day after the interment Scot called on Mrs. Dodson. Her husband was
not at the camp.

Presently he came plump to the purpose of his visit. He was never a
spendthrift of words.

“What are you and Vicky going to do?” he asked.

“I don’t know,” the bereaved mother answered listlessly. “Vicky ought
not to stay here. It’s not right. But I’ve no place to send her.”

“Mr. Stewart and I have discussed that. We’ve talked with some of the
business men of the town. If you’re willing we’ll divert the baby’s fund
to Vicky and send her down to Miss Clapp’s school at Carson. She’ll be
well taken care of there. Miss Clapp is a fine woman. Does it seem to
you a good idea?”

Tears brimmed to her eyes. “You’re good. I can never repay you. I—I’ll
be awf’lly lonesome without her, but if you think it best——”

“It’s not what I think but what you think,” he said gently.

“Could I see her sometimes?”

“As often as you like. She would spend her vacations with you, of
course.”

The lump in her throat began to ache again. Her gaze travelled beyond
the cañon below, across the Twenty-Six Mile Desert and the Forty Mile
Desert to the Pine Nut Mountains. There it rested for a long time. She
drew in her breath with a deep ragged sigh that was almost a sob. “She’d
better go. This is no life for a little girl. I want her to have a
chance to—to—be happy and live with good people.”

“Is it any life for a young woman to lead?” he asked, his blue eyes
fixed steadily on her.

A faint flag of colour fluttered in her wan cheeks. He had never before
broken down the outposts of her reserve. She felt her pulse beating. His
impersonal friendliness had suddenly become a close and vital thing.