I


THE PONY EXPRESS RIDER

Far as the eye could see lay a rough and broken desert of sage. It
stretched to the edge of a flat and arid world.

In front of the long one-story adobe station a man waited, eyes turned
to the west. His hand rested on the flat straight back of a spirited
chestnut horse. Byers was small and wiry, hard as nails. His high-heeled
boots, buckskin breeches, flannel shirt, and skull cap had all been
chosen for utility and not for looks. He wasted no energy in useless
protest, but the fat station keeper who leaned against the door jamb and
chewed tobacco knew he was seething with impatience. The wrangler
holding a second saddled horse knew it, too. For the pony express rider
from Carson was late and his delay was keeping Byers from starting on
the next lap of the transcontinental journey.

The fat man sang lugubriously and tunelessly in a voice that had been
created solely for his own amusement.

“Old Grimes is dead, that good old man,
We ne’er shall see him more.
He wore a single-breasted coat,
All buttoned down before.”

The wrangler looked at him reproachfully and murmured, “Durned if he
wouldn’t sing at a wake and spoil everybody’s enjoyment.”

“His heart was open as the day,
His feelin’s all were true.
His hair it was inclined to gray,
He wore it in a queue,”

intoned the vocalist.

“Not news,” the wrangler told himself bitterly. “I done heard all them
interestin’ details two hundred and seventy-three times.” Aloud, he
attempted a diversion. “Len’ me a loan of a chew of tobacco, Jim.”

The station keeper dived into his left hip pocket, produced a ragged
plug, and offered it to his helper. Meanwhile he gave further
information about the wearing apparel and physical idiosyncrasies of one
Grimes, defunct.

“Wonder what’s holdin’ Tim,” the stableman interposed at the end of
another stanza.

“He ain’t been late before in a blue moon. I don’t recollect as he ever
was late,” answered the fat man, drawn momentarily from his rhymed
epitaph.

Byers said nothing.

The habit of the hard-riding pony express messengers of Russell, Majors,
and Waddell was to be ahead of schedule. Each man prided himself on
covering his relay under the assigned number of hours. The mounts
supplied were chosen for speed, stamina, and heart; the men for
gameness, resource, and knowledge of the country. To be late was
contrary to the tradition of the service.

The pony express was a triumph of American pluck and energy. It
stretched from St. Joseph to San Francisco, two thousand miles through
the heart of the Indian country. The enterprise included five hundred
superb horses, nearly two hundred stations, a hundred riders. The men in
the little racing saddles were stripped to the last ounce. For
protection they carried only a knife and a revolver. The mail bags never
weighed more than twenty pounds. Each letter was written on thin tissue
paper. The postage on the smallest was five dollars. Between the
Missouri and Sacramento the time-table called for ten days, but often
the pouches moved two hundred miles toward their destination in
twenty-four hours.

Those in the saddle had to be man size in soul. No weaklings ever
applied for this job. Some of those in the service were outlaws, for
court warrants did not reach into the sage. Many were desperadoes.[1]
But few of them were quitters. They played out the hand that had been
dealt them.

-----

[1] This was more true of the station keepers and the attendants than of
the stage drivers and pony express messengers. Slade, the notorious man
killer, was superintendent of a division at Julesburg, Colorado. He
succeeded Jules, whom he murdered in cold blood. Slade ruled his crew of
wild assistants with an iron fist. He was an able and efficient servant
of the company. Later he was hanged by the vigilantes in Montana.
Legends of the country, probably much exaggerated, credit him with
having killed thirty men.—W. M. R.