The desperado had been drinking. It was apparent to all that he was in
an ugly humour. Gradually, inconspicuously, the players at that end of
the hall cashed in their chips and departed from the immediate vicinity.
Scot continued to deal with a wooden face, but behind his expressionless
eyes was a wary intentness. Dutch meant trouble. He had come with the
deliberate intention of making it.

Friends had brought to McClintock the word that he had better look out
for Dutch. The bad man was jealous of his popularity, his influence in
the camp, and above all of the fearlessness that would not accept
intimidation. Shrewdly, with that instinct for safety common to all
killers, the fellow had chosen his moment well. All the advantage would
lie with him. The hands of the dealer must be above the table sliding
out cards. His own could be on the butts of his six-shooters before he
called for a showdown. What Dutch proposed was not a duel but deliberate
cold-blooded murder.

Scot knew this. He knew, too, that if either of his hands lifted for an
instant from the cards the ruffian opposite would fling slug after slug
into his body. Nor could he expect any help from the lookout for the
game. Dutch was too sure on the shoot to tempt interference.

The roulette wheel continued to turn. The stud and draw poker games went
on. Automatically men made their bets, but the interest was gone from
their play. The atmosphere had grown electric. The furtive attention of
everybody focussed on two men, the killer and the victim he had
selected. When would Dutch find his excuse to strike? In the tenseness
of the suspense throats parched and nerves grew taut.

The contrast between the two men was striking. The one dealing the cards
was clean-cut, graceful, and lithe as a tiger. From head to foot he was
trim and well-groomed. Even the fingernails were polished pink in the
latest San Francisco fashion. The huge man in front of him was dirty,
his hair and beard unkempt, his figure slouchy. The long army overcoat
he wore was splashed with mud. He looked the incarnation of brute force
dominated by craft instead of intelligence.

Into the Crystal Palace a lean sun-and-wind browned man walked. He was
about to start back to take his run on the pony express and he had come
in to say good-bye to his brother. With one clear-eyed steady look he
realized the situation. The gunman had not yet called for a showdown. He
meant to choose his own time for fastening the quarrel on Scot. His rage
might still be diverted into another channel.

Hugh did his thinking as he moved lightly forward. There was not a break
in his stride as he walked straight to the faro table. Carelessly, it
appeared, but really by cool design, he chose the place next to Dutch,
close to him and on his right.

“Don’t crowd, young fella,” warned the bully heavily. “Me, when I play,
I want room a-plenty.”

The pony express rider tossed a twenty-dollar gold piece on the table.
“Chips,” he said, without even looking at Dutch.

The eyes of the McClintocks met. Hugh was no gambler. He was sitting in,
Scot knew, to share and lessen the risk. If he could draw the gunman’s
attention for even an instant at the critical moment it might save the
dealer’s life. A stack of chips slid across to the boy.

The big ruffian slammed down a fist like a ham, so that the chips
jumped. “Didja hear me speak, kid? Know who I am?” he blustered.

The sun streamed full on the boy’s fair curly head from the window
above. It brought out the faint golden down on his lean cheek and
emphasized a certain cherubic innocence of gaze that still lingered from
his childhood.

“Why, no, I don’t reckon I do.”

“I’m Sam Dutch.”

Hugh coppered two of the big man’s bets and played the jack to win.
“Knew a fellow called Dutch once—hanged for stealing sheep from the
Mormons. No kin, maybe,” he said cheerfully.

The lookout stirred uneasily, then stepped from the place where he sat
and disappeared through a side door. The cards slid out of the box. Hugh
won both bets he had coppered. Scot sized up chips to match the bets,
and the boy drew them in with his left hand.

Dutch turned to him a face distorted as a gargoyle. “Play yore own game
and keep off’n the cards I play. An’ don’t get heavy with me,” he
snarled with an oath.

“Sure not,” Hugh promised amiably. “It was down on the Humboldt Sink
they hanged him, I recollect.”

The bad man thrust his unkempt head closer. “Get outa here. You’re
crowdin’ me. I don’t want my private graveyard to hold no kid-size
coffins.”