Hugh dropped around to the schoolhouse that afternoon to walk home with
the lone girl who was popular. He found her administering corporal
punishment vigorously to a red-headed youth who promised with sobs never
to do it again. She was not at that moment at all popular with red-head
Hugh judged, and she did not look exactly defenceless.

At sight of her visitor Miss Lowell went red as a flame. She did not
often use the switch, and when she did she regarded it as a confession
of failure to handle the case wisely. It was embarrassing to be caught
in the rôle of a stormy Amazon. It seemed to her that Hugh was always
getting glimpses into the unlovely and vixenish side of her character.
Yet she knew she had whipped the boy only after forcing herself to do
it.

“I’ve told Tommie time and again he mustn’t bully the little boys. I’ve
talked it all over with him and argued with him. But he’s a perverse
little imp. To-day he had three small chaps crying. He practically
defied me. When I threatened to whip him he said he’d like to see me try
it. After that I had to do it.” Vicky sighed, close to tears herself.
“He’s the only child in school I haven’t got along with. Most of them
like me.”

“Of course they do, and so does Tommie,” Hugh told her confidently.
“It’s just his way of making you pay attention to him. Probably he’s in
love with you.”

“Well, he won’t be any more,” the young teacher said, laughing
regretfully.

“Oh, yes, he will. He’ll like you-all the better. He’ll be glad he’s
found his boss. I know Tommie’s kind. You’ve taken just the right course
with him. Some boys have to be appealed to once vigorously through the
cuticle. Now you’ll have no more trouble with him.”

“I hope you’re right.” Vicky changed the subject. They were walking home
together along a path that led to the main street of the town. “Isn’t it
splendiferous news about the Ground Hog? I’m so glad you’ve made a
strike.”

“I wanted to speak with you about that. There’s some danger of our
claims being jumped—not the Ground Hog, but those on which we have been
doing only assessment work. Byers and I looked over yours. I don’t see
how yours can be in any danger. You’ve done too much developing. But you
can never be sure.”

“I’ve paid out nearly three hundred dollars for wages,” she said
quickly.

“Yes, I know. Did you take receipts?”

“No, I didn’t. Ought I?”

“Better get ’em. What are your plans?”

“A dozen people have been around to ask me for leases. I hardly know
what to do. What do you think?”

“The more men you get working there the better. You can’t afford to pay
wages, so you’d better sign a lease. I wouldn’t give it to a single
person, but to two or three in partnership. Tie ’em up tight. Have a
good lawyer make the papers out, so that there isn’t anything left in
doubt. Be sure you get the proper terms.”

“And good leasers,” she suggested.

“Yes, that’s important.”

“Will you go with me when we’re arranging the lease?” she asked, a
little shyly.

“Glad to, of course.”

They talked of Scot and his recovery to health, of Mollie’s joy in her
baby, and of young Alexander Hugh himself, who was developing wonderful
intelligence, if the letters of his mother were worthy of credence.

In front of the Mammoth Saloon they met Ralph Dodson. He bowed, and Hugh
answered his bow stiffly. Since the attempt on his brother’s life and
the subsequent political campaign, McClintock did not pretend to
anything but contempt for those of the name of Dodson. He acknowledged
the salute only because he was with Vicky.

The girl flushed angrily. “We’re not friends any more, but he keeps that
smile of his working just the same,” she told Hugh. “I told him what I
thought of the way they fight. He pretended to be amused, but he was
furious when I asked him not to speak to me when we met. He’s really
more dangerous than his brother.”

“Yes, because he’s far abler.”