“Why, we left him at Piodie. The sheriff didn’t want us to bring him,”
Budd said with bland innocence, grinning down at his questioner. “Is
this here a hold-up, or what?”

“One of ’em’s a girl,” cried another of the armed men in sharp surprise.

“A girl!”

Vicky spoke now. “Isn’t that Mr. Dodson—Mr. Ralph Dodson?” she asked
quietly.

“Miss Lowell! What are you doing here?”

“I might ask that about you, Mr. Dodson,” she retorted. “I’m going with
Mr. McClintock and Mr. Budd to Carson. Haven’t you heard that two
ruffians tried to murder Colonel McClintock?” Her voice rang out like a
bell. It accused him, if not of conspiracy to murder, at least of aiding
and abetting the escape of the murderer.

After just an instant’s hesitation Dodson spoke gravely. “Yes, I’ve
heard, Miss Lowell. Believe me, I have been greatly distressed. If
there’s anything I can do——”

“You can help us bring to justice the desperado who escaped,” she cried
hotly.

Dodson chose his words with care. He knew they were likely to be
reported by some of his men to the gang at Piodie. “If someone got into
a quarrel with Colonel McClintock and——”

“They didn’t get into a quarrel with him,” Vicky flung out indignantly.
“They crept up behind him and shot him down while he wasn’t looking.
Even rattlesnakes give warning. These reptiles didn’t.”

“I really don’t know the facts, Miss Lowell. But if you’re correctly
informed certainly——”

“Oh, if—if—if,” exploded the girl. “Just words. The attack on Scot was
the most dastardly, cowardly cruel thing I ever heard of. The men who
did it and those who had it done are as bad as red Indians.” Her eyes
stabbed into him. They were filled with the passionate intolerance of
youth.

“Well, I can’t talk about that because I don’t know anything about it,”
Dodson said, his surface smile working. “We’re here under orders from
the sheriff at Piodie. He sent us word that someone was attempting
illegally to abduct Sam Dutch. There seems to be some mistake.”

“So that it remains for you to apologize for having drawn guns on us,”
Vicky said tartly. “Then we’ll move on.”

Dodson flushed. “I’m certainly sorry if we alarmed you, Miss Lowell.
Under the circumstances it couldn’t be helped. If we had known you were
out riding with friends——” He stopped, leaving his sarcastic sentence
suspended in air.

“Much obliged, Mr. Dodson,” she answered angrily. “I suppose you felt
you had to say that pleasant farewell remark. I wouldn’t be out riding
with friends at this time of night, as you would have put it if you had
the courage, if your friends hadn’t laid in wait to kill my brother
Thursday evening.”

Hugh spoke quietly and evenly. “We’ll say good-night, Mr. Dodson, that
is, if you’re quite satisfied we’re not concealing Mr. Dutch about our
persons.”

Dodson fell back with a wave of his hand. The rifles were lowered. In a
moment the travellers were on their way. The mine owner looked after
them with a frown on his brow. He was not satisfied. He believed he had
been tricked, but for the life of him he could not tell how.

Budd was the first of the three to speak. “You got us out of that fine,
Miss Lowell. Had him busy explainin’ why-for the whole time.”

But Vicky was not willing to leave the case as it stood. She was annoyed
at herself. Yet her judgment defended her course.

“I acted like a vixen,” she said. “But I wanted to put him on the
defence. The easiest way to meet an attack is to attack first, Scot once
told me. So I tried to ride roughshod over him so that he wouldn’t dare
take us back to Piodie with him.”

“He couldn’t fight Miss Victoria Lowell,” Hugh told her, smiling. “If it
hadn’t been for you he ce’tainly would have taken us to Piodie. But you
had him right. He couldn’t do a thing but let us go. We’re much obliged
to you.”

Presently, out of the darkness, while Budd was riding a few yards ahead
of them, Vicky’s voice came with unwonted humility: