XXXVIII


THE BATTLE OF BALD KNOB

After night had fallen men drifted inconspicuously to the Pony Express
Corral. They were armed, all of them with revolvers, two or three with
rifles. If any one had studied the faces of the group that gathered
round the lantern held by Byers, he would have voted these men hard
citizens. Their eyes were steady. They wasted no words and no gestures.
Byers had picked them because, as he had put it, “they would stand the
gaff.”

Without any discussion of the subject Scot naturally took command of the
expedition. He had learned the habit of it during the war.

“You know what we’re going to do,” he said quietly. “The Dodsons have
jumped our claims and put up dummies to hold them. We’ll not stand for
it. We plan to get the claims back by strategy. Later I’ll tell you how.
I suppose Dan has explained to you where you come in. We’ll give leases
on Bald Knob to those who go through with us. Understand one thing.
We’re not looking for trouble. I don’t want a single shot fired if we
can help it. We’re not going to kill anybody. It won’t be necessary. But
you boys know Sloan’s gang. They’ll fight if they get a chance. It’s up
to us to see that they don’t get that chance.”

An old-timer who had come round the Horn spoke up: “Sounds good,
Colonel. How do you aim to get these bully puss men of Dodson’s to give
up without snappin’ a cap at us? You sure got me guessin’.”

“That part of the programme comes a little later, Buck,” Scot said,
smiling at him. “I think we can pull it off, but I’m not sure. There’s a
risk for us. I don’t deny that. They might get one of us. We’ve got to
take a chance on that.”

“Let’s get this right, Colonel. Do you mean if they shoot at us we’re
not to give ’em what for back?”

“I mean that if there’s only a wild shot or two we’re not to fire back.
This isn’t a feud. We want possession of our property. The whole thing
will have to be fought out in the courts later, so we don’t want to go
to law with a black record of any killings against us. Besides, we’re
peaceable citizens who want our rights. We’re not gun-fighters.”

“All right,” grinned Buck. “You’re runnin’ this shebang. I never was in
a drift just like this before, but I reckon it’s all right. If I’m the
one they get, Colonel, you’ll have to be chief mourner at the plantin’.”

“Don’t worry, Buck. Our diamond drill’s going to strike pay ore sure.
It’s the Dodson crowd that’s likely to be in borrasca. Now if you’re all
ready we’ll be travelling.”

Byers led the way up the gulch back of the corral. Before the party had
gone far a young moon came out and lit the path. They picked their trail
through the sage and greasewood to the head of the ravine and followed a
draw which took into the cow-backed hills. The pony express rider wound
round to the rear of Bald Knob and climbed a spur upon which grew a
fairly thick grove of pine nut. Here he stopped.

“Better camp here, I reckon.”

The men unrolled their blankets and prepared a fireless camp. Soon most
of them were sound asleep. Scot and Byers moved up the shoulder of the
hill to reconnoitre. They knew that guards would be watching to prevent
a surprise, so they took precautions against being seen. By following a
swale through the brush they were able to come close enough to see dimly
the shaft house of the Ground Hog and the slaty dump which straggled
below like a thin beard.

“Looks quiet enough,” Scot whispered.

Byers nodded.

“Hugh won’t begin to paint the sky till after midnight,” the Colonel
went on. “About that time we’ll bring the men up here into the draw and
have them ready. You’re sure that little fellow Madden is all right? He
won’t betray us?”

“You can tie to him,” Byers said.

“I don’t doubt his good will. What about his judgment? He looks simple.
That’s all right, too, if he’s not shrewd enough not to make a mistake.”

“He won’t.”

“If they suspect a thing it’s all up with the plan.”

“Gotta take a chance.”

“Yes.”