XXIX


THE days had no separate meaning to Jean; they came upon him with the
orderly formation of advancing waves, line upon line, they hung above
his little island of consciousness, ominous, cold and dark, to break
and cover him under bitter waters.

He was not conscious that he was unhappy, but he knew that he was
fighting with the hours. They were formidable and long and quite
extraordinarily empty; now and then, indeed, to vary their insistent
monotony, he would feel a sharp stab at the sight or scent of the
flowering spring. A girl with a lilac plume in her hand, the flutter of
the new-born leaves in the garden of the Luxembourg, the gaiety in the
eyes of a child--these things Jean had never known before, but he knew
them now--they were the signals of his retreating joy.

Cartier watched him anxiously; the look of youth had wholly passed from
the boy’s face; it was grey and old, without expression. The features
seemed sunk and the vivid eyes no longer held their light.

It was not Jean who answered Cartier when he spoke to him, but a
creature that seemed dragged up from the depths of the sea. He was
held on the surface for a moment by the brief compulsion of Cartier’s
voice, and when it ceased he sank back without a struggle into an alien
element.

Jean was very docile, he followed Cartier meekly to his rooms for his
last week in Paris. What he liked to do best was to walk up and down,
up and down the long music room with the measured tread of a wild thing
in a cage, but he never did this unless he thought Cartier was out.
There were only two things Jean thought of, one that he might have
killed Flaubert, and the other that he had not stayed with Gabrielle;
but these two things never left him; they rose in turn and possessed
his mind in an orderly routine that did not vary. He might have killed
Flaubert, and he had not stayed with Gabrielle. Cartier interrupted
him sometimes and Jean had to keep his thoughts back from one of these
great wheels, and then as Cartier withdrew his claim Jean’s mind sprang
back released, and he found himself once more turning on his inexorable
wheels.

As the days passed he grew nearer the hidden boundary where madness
lurks; sleep withdrew from him, at first imperceptibly and gently,
a new elastic lengthening of the hours of the night, and then
altogether, with a complete and terrible absence of unconsciousness.

For twenty-four hours Jean was bound on his two wheels swinging in the
chaos of his breaking mind. Then Cartier came to him again. Jean had to
hold his head for a moment to hear what Cartier said; a strange idea
flickered into his mind, without root or continuity, that it might be
easier to kill Cartier than to listen to him; but he put it away; he
could still listen.

Cartier said: “Jean, I’ve heard from Margot; she wants us both to go
to hear her sing to-night; it’s a great occasion, she has an important
part in the new Revue at ‘Le Matin.’ It’s our last evening, you know,
in Paris. You’ll come, won’t you, to hear the little Margot?”

“I have already said good-bye to Margot,” said Jean slowly; and then he
murmured half to himself: “I asked her if she prayed for me, and she
said, ‘Ah Jean! the Blessed Virgin knows that I have prayed.’ I do not
want to hear her say that again. Her eyes are like a sword.”

“She doesn’t want us to go and see her,” Cartier explained carefully.
“She writes that it’s the music she wants you to hear--they’ve given
her a good part.”

“But you don’t know what her voice is like,” expostulated Jean
impatiently. “If I were dead and Margot sang I should know it was her
voice, and I should say, ‘Go slowly, little Margot, fold your wings!’
She is eager like a child, or a bird that must run up into the sky and
cannot wait to get there before he sings.”

Cartier nodded; he understood Margot’s letter now. “Bring him, please
bring him--it’s not me--I never was any good to him, but when I sing
he’ll listen--I think it will make a difference--a difference to him, I
mean.”

Cartier hoped that it might make a difference, for he remembered, as
he looked at Jean, that men had gone mad for love, and he thought that
they must have looked singularly like Jean, as Jean looked now.

“You’ll come,” Cartier pleaded. “You see you’ll help her; she says
you’ve done such wonders for her voice. Why, it’s quite famous now! I
had the pleasure of mentioning the fact to our good Liane the other
night. I said, ‘You must really go and hear the little Selba, _ma
fille_, she is getting a _réclame_ here in Paris, and they say she owes
it all to your little musician.’ _Ma foi!_ The good Liane put back her
big white teeth and wished she could bite. I was not at all sure she
wouldn’t--so I ran away!”