It is a curious thing that the more depraved and cold-hearted human
beings are, the more passionately sentimental they become. Liane was
incorrigibly sentimental, and Margot owed her dismissal entirely to
the bunch of violets. It had been Jean’s custom to present Liane with
violets every day, and for Jean’s sake Liane had temporarily thrust
aside all the more expensive tributes which besieged her door. She drew
back for a moment like a creature about to spring, then she rushed
forward on to the middle of the stage.

“Dismiss that girl!” she shrieked to the Manager over her shoulder.
“What!” she cried, turning on the company. “Am I to be badgered and
interrupted in private conversations by the off-scourings of the
theatre? Has it come to this, that not a rehearsal can be conducted
in a decent manner so as to suit the convenience of the leading
lady, only too patient, only too submissive to the whims of a troupe
of dancing marionettes? Monsieur Moncet, you have a very important
engagement to keep, I hear? Do not let us detain you! Pleasure before
duty is the rule of this company! It would be perhaps a trifle more
_convenable_, Monsieur, if you refrained from sending one of your young
women to interrupt private interviews, with which your affairs--however
pressing--have nothing whatever to do! What, Marie Hauteville, you are
amused!”

“Madame! Madame! _je vous en prie!_” wailed the manager. Liane waved
him contemptuously aside.

“Mademoiselle Hauteville is amused!” she went on, with terrific irony.
“Let the whole theatre wait, then, until she has digested her joke.
What is the rehearsal of a new play compared to the inimitable humour
of Mademoiselle? Cat! Daughter of the devil! Spot of infamy! It is a
joke, then, that I am bullied, betrayed, infuriated by this _canaille_
of a company! Oh, yes!” shrieked Liane, her irony breaking into wild
invective, “it is very amusing, very!” And she collapsed with a scream
of rage into the nearest chair.

“I should like to know what I have done to justify Madame’s attack,”
said Marie Hauteville wrathfully. “I have not taken away any of her
admirers! Thank Heaven, I have no need to adopt _enfants_ from the
country.”

“Mademoiselle, _taisez-vous_!” shrieked the Manager, shaking his fist
in her face.

Liane sprang to her feet.

“What does she say?” she cried. “Is she about to give us a list of her
admirers? I beseech you, let us listen. It will not take long!”

“_Malheur!_” moaned the manager, burying his face in his hands.

“Is this a rehearsal?” shouted the _jeune premier_ “or is it
Pandemonium?”

“It is what you make it,” flashed Liane, turning swiftly upon him,
“with your _cabotine_ messengers and your little _affaires de cœur_,
which you cannot keep to yourself, it seems, but desire to intrude upon
women of reputation!”

“_Et quelle réputation!_” murmured Marie Hauteville, who had found her
voice.

“I will not stay here to be insulted,” said Moncet, who had been
burning to get away for the last half hour. “Mademoiselle Hauteville,
allow me to suggest that you follow my example. Madame de Brances is
suffering from losses; she is not herself this morning.”

“Go, both of you!” said Liane, with a superb gesture of dismissal. “You
are not wasted upon each other.”

The manager raised his head from his hands.

“There will be no rehearsal this morning,” he announced coldly.
“To-night at half-past eleven, please, without fail.”

Then Liane turned to Margot; she felt all the resistless hunger of the
vulgar and violent to wreak their spite visibly upon their victim.

“It appears,” said Liane, regarding her slowly from head to foot, “that
you are to go. It will be a lesson for you, perhaps; a girl like you,
with her way to make, should at least study to appear respectable.”

“From Madame such a warning has special significance,” said Margot
quietly. She had been sick with fright through the loud scene which had
followed her unfortunate message, but when she saw she was herself to
bear the brunt of Liane’s fury, all fear left her.

Liane drew her lips back from her shining white teeth; they looked long
and savage like a wolf’s.

“It is not you alone who will find the significance, _ma fille_,” she
hissed. “Run and tell your silly little Baron that he shall not forget
he has lost a friend and found an enemy.”