“I am not yet a musician,” he said, “but it is true that is what I want
to be. It is the thing I love best and understand most in life.”

Had he already forgotten his new vocation? It would have astounded Jean
to know that he had.

Liane considered; she could not talk to him any more, and he was
obviously unfitted at present for any other form of amusement; perhaps
he could play, she was really fond of music.

“Play to me then,” she said very gently. Jean drew in his breath.
Play to her! Oh, if he could! He who was so little accustomed to play
to anybody, how dared he play to her--to the exquisite and angelic
human being whom merely to look at and speak to was a delicious and
mysterious fever?

“Do you--do you really want me to?” he asked. For of course, if she
really wanted him to, he must! Liane smiled.

“Well, yes,” she said. “I really want you to, Monsieur. Do you know
‘Les Jeux d’Eaux,’ that has an especial appeal to me, or better still,
Debussy’s ‘Les Jardins sous la Pluie?’”

“I don’t know either of them,” said Jean.

Liane thought him an idiot.

“Play, then, what you will,” she said, and resignedly wondered if she
could safely light a cigarette, but she decided to wait. However, she
leaned back on the _chaise longue_ luxuriously and closed her eyes.
Unless he played too badly she could perhaps go to sleep.

Jean found himself trembling all over when he rose to go over to the
piano. Liane had talked to him so cleverly that it had not appeared to
him that he had failed to amuse her. On the contrary, he had enjoyed
their conversation intensely. Elizabeth was the most sympathetic woman
he had ever met, but her conversation was not nearly so interesting
as Liane’s. But music! music was different; here he was really afraid
to fail, because he knew what good music was, and he knew nothing
about amusing conversation. In half an hour’s time he felt he would be
eternally disgraced in his own eyes and in Liane’s. Then he began to
play some of the Russian music he had just been learning by heart in
his rooms as a hermit. In a moment he realized that the music expressed
Liane, expressed the wonder of her, the sacred beauty, the incredible
force and joy! He was not nervous any more after that, the music became
a communication between them, and he let himself go. Jean’s music was
an original and instinctive note. He had spoken the truth when he had
told Liane it was the only thing for which he cared. It was his only
personal channel of expression, roughened by inexperience and without
the bell-like clarity of disciplined practice, but it was an authentic,
living talent, and it shook the artist in Liane wide awake. She sat up
suddenly and opened her eyes. Who was this young man who was playing to
her? This quite ordinary, inarticulate young man, with his _cachet_ of
_fils de famille_ written all over him? The little Baron D’Ucelles, who
oughtn’t by all the rules of the game to do anything better than anyone
else?

He had caught at her heart and was holding it with those hands of the
master; he was making her think and feel and forcing her back into the
currents of life. The notes flowed from his fingers like fire and dew,
his vivid impetuosity awaked and astonished her. He had come out of the
world where, to Liane, men were as trees walking; and he had become
a distinct value. When he stopped playing and came back to her, she
looked straight in his eyes.

“_Bon!_” she cried, “you deceived me, my friend. I thought you were a
young gentleman, it appears you are an artist. What, may I ask in the
name of all the blessed saints, are you doing in the Bank?”

“Ah!” cried Jean, exhausted but triumphant. “Then you really think I
can play? You really believe in me?” Liane looked at her watch.

“I have listened to you for an hour, my child,” she said; “do you not
call that belief in you?”

“Oh, but Mademoiselle, I am ashamed, horrified--I have played to you
for an hour, a thousand pardons!”

“A thousand nothings of the kind,” interrupted Liane impatiently. “We
drop all this now, you know, you and I--we are artists, and artists, as
you probably don’t know, are very simple people when they are together
and attend strictly to business. You will, of course, throw up this
performance at the Bank to-morrow. You had better come here on Sunday
at ten o’clock (the evening, you know, _mon petit_; nothing is done at
ten o’clock in the morning but the saying of one’s prayers, unless,
indeed, one is under the tyranny of a dressmaker). Then you must play
to Cartier; he will take you in hand, I fancy. I will have some other
men here too; this affair of yours must be well looked into--and fancy
that that _crétin_ of a Maurice hadn’t the sense to tell me you were
an artist, and there I was stiffening my jaws with the rubbish of an
afternoon call.”