Liane was fifteen years older now, and she was no longer waiting for
her opportunity.

She was a tall woman, whose figure already required care; she had thick
coils of magnificent chestnut hair, much of which was still her own.

Her arched eyebrows gave a questioning, mysterious look to her wide
grey eyes with their deep bisque shadows. She had the most beautiful
mouth in Paris, and she had been famous for her smile. Poets had sung
of it, artists had tried to paint it, lovers had sworn they would die
for it. They had not found that necessary, but many of them had found
it remarkably expensive.

Ten years ago that smile of Liane’s was the talk of Paris, but perhaps
rather too many other things had been talked of since. It was by now
a little blurred, tightened by repetition, and hardened by inevitable
usage, still even now it was a work of art, and, without the stage, it
would have afforded Liane a handsome income. It was perhaps no mean
test of a hermit.

Jean stood watching her with a hypnotized air; it was a great tribute
to Liane, but as an attitude in a Parisian boudoir it was a trifle
awkward.

Poor Jean! How beautiful this woman was,--and he had never seen a
beautiful woman before.

Liane hardly seemed to move as she approached him; her figure glided
through the room like the idle wing of a bird in slow flight across a
summer sky. It had taken a _danseuse_ two years to teach Liane how to
walk.

She was dressed in a pale dove-grey tea-gown, with a knot of violets
at her breast. It was not surprising that Maurice admired her more even
than his own imperially cut and waxed moustache; nevertheless, he had
gone to the _courses_ this afternoon without her, and Liane de Brances
did not like being left alone.

“_Vous êtes le bien-venu_, Monsieur,” said Liane, in the modulated
musical tone which she had learned for the theatre. It was not her
natural voice, and she looked at Jean with a soft enclosing look which
seemed to shut out the world.

No woman is very dangerous to a man unless she is a little
self-conscious, and Liane was so completely self-conscious that she
could afford to be perfectly natural. She knew herself as an artist
knows his picture or a captain his ship.

“I think you have fallen from heaven!” she said, sinking into a _chaise
longue_ and patting the cushions left and right of her into a suitable
background. “Or if you have come from the other place that will be more
amusing still! Think of it, Maurice has gone to the races, and left me
alone in the rain! It was clothes of course--the clothes of a woman,
Monsieur, are her tragedy. _Mon Dieu!_ the life one leads! I can assure
you, it is a slavery, and yet what can we do? For if one does not
strain every nerve to succeed, it becomes a massacre! I believe I may
truly say that every woman in the company would murder me with a new
costume to-morrow if I did not put myself in the hands of the greatest
tyrant in Paris. You know Madame Berthe, of course? She dresses half
the world, and we must attempt to accommodate her. I was, then, at
her house, if you will believe me, at ten o’clock this morning--an
hour when I am never awake--I must have been driven there in my sleep,
I fancy, and if I have caught a cold and ruined my voice, one sees
very well why! And after I had sat there an hour--an hour!--and I am
without exception the busiest woman in Paris--I am sent a message that
she cannot see me until three! I assure you that for two pins I would
have burst into her private room and destroyed all the costumes within
sight! But I was handicapped by thoughts of the future; I restrained
myself, and I return here furious. Maurice appears. I cannot accompany
him to the _courses_; instead I have to go back to that infamous woman,
or she won’t have the second act ready at all; as it is, I shall have
to run in and out in pins. And they accuse us of being gay. What a
calumny! No housewife works as I do. I have three parts a mile long to
learn for next week, and I haven’t looked at one of them! Costumes!
Costumes! And then a silly author appears at lunch expecting me to know
his twaddle by heart and praise him for it. Oh la! la! the vanity of
these men who expect gratitude in return for parts only fit for a sick
crow! You have seen _La Fin de l’Amour_ of course? I ask you frankly,
how do I appear in it? You like it, _hein_? I assure you I can do
better than that; but one is ruined of course by the rest of the cast.
I told Colin so yesterday--the _premier_ is so careless, he forgets
half his words and apparently he imagines that the front of the stage
was meant only for him. The less said of the women the better, it is
a marvel to me they are not hissed off the stage. But my public are
always good to me. You like it?”

How was Jean to explain that he had never heard of it, that even if
he had, he should have avoided it, that this lady’s whole profession
appeared to him to be wrong?