The child lifted her head with a frightened movement.

“It is nothing, it is nothing,” she muttered between her trembling lips.

But Jean sat down on the box beside her, and would not be denied. “It
is not nothing,” he said firmly, “that you are here in trouble and
alone! It is not nothing that you, who are no more than a child, should
be spoken to as I have heard Monsieur Picot speak to you to-night.
_Mon Dieu!_ I had no idea such infamies could go on here in Paris!
Mademoiselle, I implore you, trust me! Speak to me, tell me what I can
do for you, and believe that is the only advantage I will take of your
confidence.”

“Help me, Monsieur?” asked Margot, sitting up straight and regarding
this strange young man with wide-open, astonished eyes. “Why, what
should you do for me? Are you not a friend of de Brances?”

Jean shook his head impatiently. “What difference does that make?” he
exclaimed. “Am I not a man and an artist; do you suppose all men are
inhuman and monstrous like that _crétin_ who spoke to you just now? My
poor child, I will prove to you that all are not!”

“No, no,” said Margot quickly, “indeed I do not think it. I know
that you, Monsieur, are for certain different. You have not seen me
before, perhaps, but I have seen you often; you are not like the other
gentlemen who come here and never leave us alone. I have often wondered
what you came here for, but of course de Brances has many friends who
like to see her on the stage, some of them may be--” Margot hesitated;
it looked a little ungracious to admit to a friend of de Brances that
some few of that lady’s intimates might behave with tolerable decency
behind her back!--“may be artists,” she finished instead, “and that
makes always for a kind of sympathy.”

“I am a musician,” said Jean with emphasis.

“A musician,” echoed Margot very softly.

“And I am very poor,” Jean continued, “I am a struggling artist!”

Jean announced this statement as if it were a proclamation of ascent to
the throne. He succeeded in startling Margot, to whom, however, poverty
did not appear to have quite the same meritorious halo that it wore to
Jean’s less accustomed eyes. But then Margot knew what real poverty
meant.

“But that is a misfortune for Monsieur,” she said gently.

“No, it is not,” replied Jean impatiently; “if I were not poor I could
not offer to help you, you would very justly refuse me; but now I have
a plan that I think you will be willing to accept.”

Margot’s eyes grew rounder and rounder; she was not quite sure that
this strange and attractive gentleman sitting on the box beside her
was sane, but she was quite sure that he was kind, and that it was
extraordinarily interesting to listen to him. Margot thought he must be
rather like an angel; but it is possible that Margot would have felt
uncertain how practical an angel’s plan would be for Paris. She knew
her Paris, and she did not fancy that the heavenly powers made much of
a success there.

“Monsieur has a plan, then?” she murmured.

“I must explain myself,” said Jean, leaning forward with intense
excitement, and stabbing the air with his forefinger. “I have said
that I am a musician! More than that, I am the only kind of musician
who can help you! When I came to Paris six months ago I met Cartier.
You must have heard of him, his touch is famous in Paris--you’ll have
to know him--there is a man who has a soul of gold! He gave me lessons
for which he never charged me a penny, and then he sent me out to
listen to all the best singers in Paris. He told me to study a method
of teaching, and how to accompany the voice; he gave me introductions
to several singers, and I have already accompanied Lucien le Page and
Madame du Buissant. _Enfin!_ I have fitted myself to train a voice.
That is what you need, is it not? Very well then, I will give up my
Bank and train yours!”

“Pardon, Monsieur, your Bank?” exclaimed Margot. “What Bank?”

“It is nothing,” said Jean, with great calmness. “It happens to be
my profession at the moment, but I have been meaning to give it up
for some time. Now it is done! You will trust your voice to me? You
consider my plan good?”

Margot gasped. “But, Monsieur,” she said, “I am not rich! I am not a
Bank! I would gladly let you train my voice if I could afford to pay
you for it; but alas, it is just there that your plan breaks down.”

“Not at all,” said Jean impatiently. “If I make your voice a success
that will bring me into notice. It is a bargain, it is purely business,
I assure you. Money--what is money? There will be no difficulty about
that--what I want is fame.”