Madame Torialli rose as she spoke. She crossed the room to a tiny
shrine upon her desk; the two little doors fell back at the touch of a
spring. Jean saw nothing very wonderful inside, only the photograph of
a man in evening dress--Torialli as he may have looked a hundred times
over, on the platform about to sing. The wonderful thing was in Madame
Torialli’s eyes. It was a moment of great emotional sincerity, for
Madame Torialli loved her husband. For his sake she had left her world,
the quiet distinguished world of the best blood in France, and married
an artist. It is true that though she had left it, it had only been to
bring it after her to his feet; and yet it had needed an imagination, a
fine and an honest purpose, for her to take so strange a departure; and
she came from the most conservative aristocracy in the world. She had
never regretted her impulse. She loved art, as no artist ever loves it;
and she knew the world of human beings as no artist can ever know it;
and after being the greatest passion of Torialli’s life, she became his
most useful possession; and she accepted her position gracefully, and
turned it as she did all the other facts of life--to her own advantage.

“Thank you, Madame,” said Jean simply.

“_Voyons_,” she said, laughing a little, and even blushing through the
careful enamelling of her face. “Even old women have in their hearts
a corner where they like to play the young girl! Let us return again
to our discussion. Your great actress gave you an admirable lesson;
the lessons of bad women are often more efficacious than the lessons
of good ones. They have a great advantage over the rest of us, for
they force you to accept the moral while they have none of the onus
of suggesting it to you. For the rest, your poor little friend charms
me greatly; for her you must be very careful, my dear boy. She saved
you from marrying her, and you in return must save her from failing to
marry--the nice young grocer round the corner.”

Jean flushed a little.

“What nice young grocer round the corner?” he asked uneasily.

Madame laughed.

“Come! Come!” she said. “There will always be a young grocer round the
corner, and you must be graceful about it. You must not want her to
keep always single for your sake. I grant it would be more poetic, but
it would not be very kind.”

“But of course I don’t,” said Jean hurriedly. “I haven’t the slightest
wish--” he stopped a moment--“but I don’t see why we shouldn’t still be
friends,” he added.

Madame laughed again.

“There are only two alternatives, I assure you,” she said. “And it’s
like the arrogance of youth to imagine you can invent a third. You
may marry the little girl, or you may make the simpler arrangement of
a man of your class, but in your situation and with her feeling for
you--there will be, sooner or later, an arrangement, and an arrangement
which will not be easy to explain subsequently to the grocer; and we
must always bear that young man in mind.”

Jean was silent for a moment; he was beginning to think differently of
Margot; it was as if he already saw her the wife of the grocer. He felt
as if he had been a little ridiculous.

“Well, then,” he said. “What should one do?”

“I think one should not remain in her rooms in the first place,” said
Madame very softly; “and, in the second, I should persuade Flaubert to
give her lessons instead of you.”

“Give up Margot’s voice!” cried Jean reluctantly. Then the figure of
the grocer came up and hit him between the eyes.

“It is true she has a good position now,” he said slowly. “I think she
will do well. She’s earning quite a lot. But then--there will be the
price of her lessons.”

Madame smiled sympathetically.

“But Flaubert charges the profession almost nothing,” she said. “The
dear little thing! How funny it must all have been--but for you, my
poor boy, how sad!”

Jean had not thought of the situation as a humorous one before, but he
already felt older and broader-minded; he laughed a little--the kind
of laughter which makes a man slightly ashamed of himself afterwards,
and much pleased at the time with the company he is in. It was a laugh
of a man of the world. Madame Torialli recognised this, and changed the
subject.

The greatest art in life is to know when to leave off; and it is an art
which few women ever learn. But Madame Torialli knew it to perfection.
A few minutes later a knock sounded on the door.