A silence followed. The Curé drew out his handkerchief and spilt some
snuff on the floor. The doctor sneezed and Miss Prenderghast frowned.
She disliked French habits.

“I have received a letter from the Comte D’Ucelles,” she observed
finally; “he is, as you may remember, Jean’s nearest relation upon the
French side--in fact, his only near French relation.”

“_Parfaitement_,” replied the doctor, “he is a gallant man and has had
a certain success in Paris. There is a remarkable resemblance between
him and the late Baron.”

“Ah!” said Miss Prenderghast thoughtfully, “I trust it is only
superficial. Still it cannot be helped; he is Jean’s uncle, and he has
at last chosen to intimate some interest in the boy’s future.”

“Very natural, very natural indeed,” exclaimed the Curé. “Nothing could
be more _convenable_, madame, the true spirit of a good Catholic and of
an uncle!”

“It may be as you say,” replied Miss Prenderghast, with knitted brows.
“In any case, he has waited long enough before showing either of them.
However, it is not easy for me to make up my mind what it is best to
do.”

“And Jean, what is his opinion?” asked the doctor.

“I have not consulted him upon the question,” said Miss Prenderghast.
“It is possible I should have done so, in which case I should hardly
have troubled you for your advice; but yesterday a very, very painful
incident occurred, which has greatly shaken my intention.”

Both the doctor and the priest started; they did not look at each
other, though they were thinking the same thought.

“He has fallen from grace,” the priest said to himself.

“He has become a man,” thought the doctor.

“He has written an opera,” said Miss Prenderghast impressively. Neither
of the men could help looking a little disappointed.

“You may well be surprised,” said Miss Prenderghast with satisfaction.
“I was myself perfectly unprepared for this blow. I knew he was musical
and that--as I thought most unnecessarily, Monsieur le Curé--you had
encouraged it by allowing him to play the organ in your church.” The
Curé collapsed, the doctor looked radiant. “And you, doctor,” said
Miss Prenderghast, “have not improved matters by insisting upon him
attending the meetings of a disreputable orchestral society! This is
the result.”

“Well, well,” said the doctor bravely, “his mother was a neurotic!”

“There are certain professions,” said the Curé mildly, “in which a
knowledge of music is not altogether a misfortune. I have myself
studied harmony for a fortnight during my training at the Seminary. I
have never regretted it.”

“No, but your congregation has,” snapped the doctor.

“What do you suggest?” asked Miss Prenderghast.

The doctor looked at the Curé. He really had no idea in his head
at all, but the Curé looked so full of his own importance and so
determined on making Jean a priest that the doctor found himself saying:

“Paris!” He only meant it as a joke.

“Paris?” said Miss Prenderghast thoughtfully.

“Paris!” echoed the Curé in horror.

“Paris?” said a clear boy’s voice just behind them.

It was Jean himself, fresh from a morning in the woods, with a
retriever puppy gamboling at his heels. It was youth, and hope, and
ardour, and all incredible, dauntless things! It was the spirit of
growing life and spring, and it was followed by Elizabeth, who promptly
announced _déjeuner_, half an hour after the usual time.

“We will finish this discussion later on,” said Miss Prenderghast.

Jean greeted his two old friends cordially.

“But what is all this about Paris, Aunt Anne?” he asked, smiling a
little as he held back the _portière_ for her to pass out. “Have you
and Monsieur le Curé and the doctor just discovered it?”

“You should not come into rooms suddenly,” said Miss Prenderghast
coldly. “Then you would not overhear parts of other people’s
conversations which were not meant for your ears.”