XIX


THE Toriallis had a handsome new house in the wide Boulevard
Malesherbes; it was, as Madame often explained, “only a business
residence.”

This, however, had not prevented her from doing full justice to her
consummate taste and to the large sums of money which her husband’s
professional successes had put at her disposal.

Half the house was arranged entirely to suit the pupils.

Beyond the entrance hall was a large waiting-room leading into a small
theatre. The pupil and his _accompagnateur_ appeared upon a large
platform, while Torialli sat in one of the stalls, listening and
shouting his directions. Occasionally, if the pupil was one of great
importance, a few guests would be allowed to be present, and very often
Madame herself would come in, sometimes to encourage a nervous pupil,
and occasionally to appease an angry one.

The day of Jean’s first attempt the big _salle d’attente_ was even
fuller than usual; it reminded Jean of nothing so much as the
consulting room of some fashionable doctor. There was the same air of
strained suspense, and of superficial efforts to appear at ease.

It was one of Madame Torialli’s favourite sayings that Torialli’s
pupils were like a “family party.” If she meant to express a cynical
disregard for the amenities of domesticity it struck Jean that her
comparison would have been perfect. All the members of Torialli’s
little family were, beneath a certain outward courtesy and ease,
intensely antagonistic to each other. In the musical world there are
very few plums, and there are a great many appetites. There were two
sides to Torialli’s world as well. The professionals who paid with
their earnings and worked with a fierce seriousness for bare existence,
and the rich amateurs who gave lightly of their superabundance both of
money and leisure. It is possible that Torialli, if left to himself,
would have put the artists first; but he was not left to himself. He
was a rich man and a great success, and he had won these benefits
through his wife, who had taught him to give the first place to the
amateurs, and to keep his professional pupils merely as an ornamental
addition to his profitable life-work.

Even in the _salle d’attente_ there was a distinct cleavage between
the two branches--a little group of beautifully dressed women and
well-groomed men sat apart by itself, in a kind of upper Paradise, near
the door which led to the theatre, and where Jean leaned by an open
window sat the professionals. They were well dressed, too, but their
whole air was different; there was a restlessness in their eyes and the
definite marks of age and work written in the lines of their faces.
Nobody from either group took the least notice of Jean.

He was amused to see that among the group of amateurs sat, enthroned in
the foremost place, the handsome figure of Pauline Vanderpool, the lady
whom Romain D’Ucelles had offered to Jean as a commendable source of
income.

She certainly upheld her reputation, for her furs alone cost more than
those of all the other women in the room, and she wore a pair of very
large and fabulously expensive diamond earrings.

“Of course, Clothilde Duffray hadn’t the least voice when she came
here,” a girl with a magnificent mass of red hair exclaimed. “_Ma foi!_
One would have had to lay one’s ears to the ground to catch a note!
And now, I assure you, she drowns an orchestra. What she paid I can’t
tell you, but she told me herself that she suffered torments. Torialli
literally stood over her like a wild beast. I’m not sure he didn’t
bite her. He raved at her, I know, like a madman. I’ve seen her come
out purple with tears--but it was worth it; she’s making two hundred
francs a night now, without turning a hair.”

“What I can’t understand is,” Pauline’s flat, uncertain French struck
across from the other side of the room, “how Torialli ever came to let
Clara sing at the Salle Fémina. She hasn’t any voice, she hasn’t any
style, and she must have done him about just as much credit as a tin
trumpet; it doesn’t seem to me to be any catch to be Torialli’s pupil,
if he’s going to let women like that loose on one’s ears.”

The men laughed.

“Oh, it wasn’t Torialli’s fault,” said a famous tenor (so famous that
from Torialli’s point of view he was almost as good as an amateur).
“You’d have, you know, to chain Clara up to prevent her. Why, I heard
her sing at Chevillard myself last week, and when I met Torialli
afterwards his language quite astonished me; nothing but the fact that
she’s got the largest fortune in Paris prevented him from suing her on
the spot. One doesn’t, you see, try to take money from people who have
it, only from poor devils like ourselves, who haven’t a sou to live
upon!” This was really a great joke, for Lucien had any other quality
of the devil rather than the one he was usually most eager to assume.