XVII


JEAN opened dreamy eyes to look at Margot, who sat by his bedside
reducing with swift competent hands a pile of his clothes that she was
mending. His body felt blissfully light and at ease, and for the first
time since his illness his mind was alive.

He felt the singular clarity and depth of mind claimed by the mystic
after a long period of fasting and prayer. All his senses were at their
keenest and seemed to work without obstruction. None of the incoherence
and clumsiness of reality were present to him; life seemed an easy and
an exquisite thing radiant with love and beauty.

He gazed at Margot’s face and noted one by one its gracious curves, the
little lift of the lips, the line of her chin, the soft brown hair that
shadowed her low forehead; it seemed as if her face was new to him, and
he was looking at it for the first time. It was thinner than usual, and
there were dark purple shadows under her eyes. She worked quickly and
as if absorbed; but no movement of Jean’s escaped her; she seemed to
see without lifting her eyelids that he was awake, and when she raised
them at length to greet him, Jean felt as if he had been taken into a
strong place full of sunshine.

He gave a little sigh of pleasure.

“You’ve been very good to me, Margot,” he said. “And how pretty
everything in the room is. I don’t believe there’s such a neat or
charming place in Paris!”

The soft colour came into Margot’s cheeks; she had to perfection the
Frenchwoman’s talent for the management of things. Material was always
docile to her, and she had kept Jean’s room like a shrine. His praise
was as unaccustomed as it was sweet, for Jean had been too absorbed in
his own life before to realise how many of its conveniences he owed to
someone else.

To-day he seemed to be seeing the past in fresh colours. What a stupid
world he had lived in! Everyone had tried to get the better of everyone
else, people had thought so much of money; he had himself--not of the
money perhaps--but of what it could buy. Stupid things like admiration,
fine clothes, and inconceivably uninteresting social successes! He had
not thought of music, of beauty, or of the hard Spartan magnificent
triumphs of the spirit. He had worked hard for the spirit, fought
for the spirit, and then somehow or other, he did not yet know how,
other things had kept coming in. He had been pushed away from his
goal--music had forsaken him. He had played accompaniments, and worst
of all, stupidest of all, had been his feeling for Liane--he shivered
as he thought of it. How cruel she had been, and how indifferent
to that vague foolish passion of his poured out at her feet so
unnecessarily--for it was not the kind of thing Liane wanted. It was
wasted; she had not cared for his soul. It seemed to him now the most
idle and incredible folly, and he forgot the force of his passion as
completely as one forgets last year’s toothache. He felt as if he had
reached a new system of values, one in which it would be no longer
difficult to do without, because by doing so he would come into an
inheritance of things more precious, clear solitude for work, freedom
from the strain of the uncongenial, and entire repudiation of the whole
material world. In fact, it was the Higher Life again, only this time
Jean called it art and not religion. He was a little more human over it
too, because he allowed it to include the friendship of Margot.

He could not remember his illness very distinctly, but he knew that her
voice had sounded like music, and her touch had been cool and soft, and
that somehow, just when things had been at their worst, she had made
them better.

He did not know why it was, but he felt vaguely better and safer if she
were in the room; even the keen kindly eyes of the doctor did not give
him the sense of support that he found in Margot’s. He felt that there
was in her something indestructibly strong, and that it was there for
his use.

Jean put out his hand towards her and she let her sewing fall into her
lap while she covered it.

“It is nearly time for you to have your broth, Jean,” she said.

“No, it can’t be,” said Jean. “I want to talk to you, Margot. Where do
you get the money to buy broth and chicken and jelly?”

“I make the jellies,” said Margot, “and the broth and chicken are not
expensive at this time of year.”

“Where’s your mother?” Jean persisted.

“She’s staying with Papa’s friends for a little change. She’ll be back
in a day or two!”

“Then you’ve done everything?” said Jean with a little sigh. “Do you
know, Margot, when I came here I meant to help you, but it seems to
me that I only gave you more trouble--it has always been you who have
helped me. How do you manage, too, about your singing, _chérie_? I
never hear you!”