III


THE doctor gave Jean a thermometer as a parting present, and the Curé
brought him a little medal of St. Francis; he gave it to Jean after
mass on his last morning.

“Always wear this, my son,” he said, “it has been blessed by the
Bishop. I tried to get a eucalyptus rosary which had received the Holy
Father’s own touch, but it had been sent by mistake to Adélaide la
Court, who is just going into service. It was necessary for her to be
safeguarded in every way. I think, however, you will find this medal
very efficacious. Do not forget your prayers, go to Mass regularly, and
never miss a fast. You will find Paris very different in some ways from
St. Jouin, at least I have always gathered so; but the Church is the
same, nothing ever changes that. Keep your vocation.”

Jean nodded--he was not quite sure what his vocation was, but he
foresaw no difficulty in keeping it.

Miss Prenderghast had been lying awake half the night, thinking how
she should say good-bye to Jean. She said it very badly; he was all she
had in the world, and she had never really had him. Jean made her a
polite little speech in which he thanked her for all she had done for
him, and Miss Prenderghast said, “Nonsense, somebody had to do it!” and
“For goodness sake, boy, don’t gush; it’s not English.”

Jean hesitated for a moment, bowed, kissed her hand and left her. Then
he ran into the kitchen and threw his arms around Elizabeth.

“For shame, Master Jean,” cried Elizabeth, with gratified horror. “You
a great big man, how could you go for to do such a thing?”

“Oh, Elizabeth,” said Jean, and he was laughing and almost crying at
the same time, “a man must kiss somebody, you know. You’ve been very
good to me, Elizabeth!”

“There! there! Master Jean,” said Elizabeth, who was wholly crying.
“You’ll take care of yourself, my lamb, now, won’t you? And don’t pay
no attention to what nobody says to you in that there wicked Paris full
of hussies and what not? You go your own way, Master Jean dear, and if
you’re ever in want of anything you’ll write and tell me, won’t you? I
know what young men and short commons is, and I’ve saved my wages for
many a year a-purpose!”

“Oh, Elizabeth!” said Jean at last, “but you know a man can’t take
money from a woman!”

“Can’t ’e though, my dear?” said Elizabeth grimly. “Then all I can say
is ’e can take many other things which are a sight worse for ’im--for
’im and for ’er too, for the matter of that! Don’t you go muddlin’ yer
’ead with them notions, and oh! for ’eaven’s sake, Master Jean, don’t
sit in yer wet feet or go short of your food!”

Elizabeth hadn’t any parting present to give Jean--but when he went out
of the kitchen, he ran by a back way across the fields, because he did
not want anyone just then to see his face, and Elizabeth sat at the
kitchen table with her head on her arms, and refused to answer the bell
to clear away the breakfast. She was the only person in St. Jouin who
realized that Jean would never come back again--someone like him would
return, no doubt, with his eyes and his voice, but the Jean D’Ucelles
who ran across the wet, wind-blown fields that autumn morning would be
a different person altogether.

On the railway station Jean found several of his class-mates from
the Lycée, and among them Maurice Golaud, the young officer who was
quartered at St. Jouin.

“Ah, you lucky beggar!” he cried. “Just to think that in seven hours’
time you will be in the heart of the universe, while I am wasting away
in this old, aimless penitentiary of a spot. You don’t know what’s
before you, my boy! The cafés, the good little drinks, the fine little
dinners, the dear little women! I am sick for the sound of the streets
and the lights down the Champs-Elysées in the evening! What a world,
and what a place this country, where you go about knee-deep in mud to
each other’s funerals, with only the cows to look at! But you’ll be
strange at first, _mon cher_! Look here, I know what I’ll do,” and
he took out a card with an address on it and pushed it into Jean’s
hand. “Go and call there,” he said, as the train started. “If I can’t
run up and put you through your paces, you’ll see someone there who’s
worth seeing; at least she is usually considered to be so!” Maurice
gave a significant twist to his moustache as he spoke. He was really
more proud of the lady who lived at the address than of that extremely
handsome feature, in fact he considered them both his features, and
he thought he was very generous to let Jean have the unexampled
opportunity of observing them. As for Jean, he put the address
carefully in his pocket; it seemed to him that after all he should not
be so very friendless in Paris.

The train took its short, uneven way through the flat lands of France.