“I don’t know my aunt very well,” he said at last.

Pauline threw back her head and laughed.

“Well, it’s easy to see that your mother was an Englishwoman,” she
said. “Why, if I’d given your Uncle Romain that opening, he’d have sent
me blushing into next week.”

“I’m afraid I am very stupid, mademoiselle,” said poor Jean. “I’ve only
just come to Paris.” It was evident that whatever blushing there was
going to be, would be entirely on Jean’s part.

Pauline laughed again.

“I suppose you are going to live right away with the D’Ucelles, aren’t
you?” she asked curiously.

“No, I don’t think so, mademoiselle,” said Jean.

“My! but that’s odd,” cried Pauline, regarding him closely. “Why ever
not?--where are you going to live, then?”

“I shall find rooms to-morrow, I imagine.”

“You people over here are funny,” said Pauline. “I suppose as your
uncle and aunt haven’t any children, you are their heir, aren’t you?”

Jean shrugged his shoulders; he was getting angry, and it improved his
manner.

“I am really afraid you must ask them, mademoiselle,” he said gently.
“I know so very little myself about their affairs.”

“I suppose you have money of your own, then?” inquired the relentless
Pauline.

“Mademoiselle, I have enough,” said Jean, trembling with rage.

“All the same,” Pauline went on, “I think it’s real mean of them not to
keep you on here. Why, their house is as big as an hotel. Doesn’t it
make you mad?”

“If you do not mind, mademoiselle, I should prefer not to discuss my
relations in a language that they do not understand,” said Jean, biting
his lip.

Pauline stared at him.

“Goodness me!” she exclaimed. “You wouldn’t discuss them in a language
they _could_, I suppose?”

Jean hesitated.

“In France,” he said gently, “it is not our custom to discuss our
relations at all.” And this time Pauline did understand. She did not
blush, nor did she show any sign of displeasure. She measured Jean with
a calculating eye; he was a negligible quantity, poor Jean--he was not
even good looking; his face was too thin and too pallid, his features
too angular, only his clear-cut, sensitive mouth and a certain shining
eagerness in his vivid dark eyes held the observer’s attention, but
they did not hold Pauline’s.

“In America,” she said, with calm distinctness, “we discuss what we
choose, and I guess I intend to allow myself the very same licence over
here!” And she turned a beautiful white shoulder upon Jean and devoted
the rest of dinner to her other neighbour.

It was the second time that evening in which Jean discovered that if
you have no material value you are not supposed to claim the right of a
spiritual one.

Romain laughed at him after dinner.

“My dear boy!” he said, “what on earth did you say to La Belle
Américaine to make her deluge poor Le Blanc with her atrocious French.
He says she gave him a tooth ache; were you trying to snub her?”

Jean flushed scarlet.

“You did not tell me she had no manners!” he muttered.

Romain laughed again.

“My poor child,” he said, “good manners are historical nowadays; they
are the survival of race. One does not expect them from Americans; they
have--those charming children of yesterday--nothing to survive from. It
is true one hears of the Pilgrim Fathers, but that can hardly be looked
upon as a satisfactory pedigree, particularly as one gathers from the
absence of all allusion to the mothers that ‘ces gens-là’ married
beneath them! I don’t offer people advice as a rule, it might bore them
and it would certainly bore me; still I will go so far as to say to you
that you mustn’t think too much about manners. You see the rich have
inherited the earth, but they’ve kept, poor dears, the manners of the
soil, and it’s considered a little diplomatic just now to meet them
half way. You take me, perhaps? An air just a little less rigid than
your own, my dear Jean, will find itself more at home in Paris. Don’t
trouble to go into the drawing-room again; if you’re tired go to bed.”