“Honestly, I get time enough,” he said. “And you? Flaubert is all
right, isn’t he? Your voice has improved greatly.”

Margot rose to go--and Jean thought that he had succeeded in hiding his
relief; still he felt a little ashamed of being relieved.

“One thing I do want you to remember, Margot,” he said, helping her
on with her jacket. “Nobody’s voice will ever mean what yours does to
me, and if I ever can--we _are_ friends, aren’t we? Here are your
gloves--and you’ll come again sometimes on Sunday evening, won’t you?
Are you sure you can get home alone all right?”

Margot nodded--she was quite sure she could get home alone all right;
the difficulty would be if she were not alone. The door closed after
her.

Jean returned to the piano--but the joy was gone now--the mysterious
Ariadne thread of Gabrielle’s smile had broken--instead he could see
only the little cloud in Margot’s eyes--he could hear the break in her
voice when she said, “Oh, Jean!” She used to say that so differently
when he was ill and she was nursing him.

He flung over the music-stool and rushed downstairs--they were long
stairs and he caught Margot up before she had reached the bottom. He
seized her hands and turned her round so that he could see her face.

Margot was crying.

He made an exclamation of regret and self-reproach and dragged her
upstairs again without a word. Margot expostulated faintly--but she
followed.

“Now,” he said, drawing her into his one armchair and seating himself
beside her. “What is it--I know I’ve been a beast--but it can’t be
helped now--I won’t be any more. Tell me, Margot.”

“If I tell you you’ll be so angry, Jean,” whispered Margot.

“Well, I’m angry now,” said Jean; “I’m angry with myself--I can’t be
angrier--what have you done?”

“It isn’t me,” said Margot, wiping away her tears. “It’s just Paris, I
suppose--it’s just everything--but I can’t help it, Jean. I don’t like
the Toriallis.”

Jean frowned; he drew a little further away from her. “Suppose we leave
them out?” he suggested.

“I would if I could,” said Margot; “but you see, Jean--she does do the
accounts with Flaubert.”

“Do the accounts with Flaubert! Do you mean Madame?” Jean rose to his
feet. “You’re mad, my dear,” he said brusquely. “Madame has nothing
whatever to do with the business--what accounts do you mean?”

“They all say so,” said Margot; “and after all, it’s the Toriallis’
business, they must come in somewhere!”

Jean swore at the business.

“They don’t,” he added, and as Margot seemed to fancy that swearing had
not yet cleared up the situation. “But what’s wrong with your account?”
he added. “Flaubert promised me to charge you merely a nominal sum.”

“It’s four hundred francs for a dozen lessons, Jean,” said Margot.

Jean started as if he had been stung.

“You’ve read the figures wrong!” he asserted.

She showed him the figures, but she kept her hand over the rest of
Monsieur Flaubert’s letter.

“There’s some mistake,” Jean urged.

“No--” said Margot. Then she said timidly: “It’s not the kind of thing
a girl can make a mistake about, Jean. I wish it was.”

Jean looked at her quickly.

“You remember Monsieur Picot?” Margot went on in a very low voice.
“Monsieur Flaubert offers to teach me--in that way, Jean--instead of
the money, I mean! If I can’t pay--and of course I can’t pay four
hundred francs down--but don’t look like that, Jean!”

Jean, however, continued to look like that--his one overwhelming
desire was to have the thick, pink neck of Monsieur Louis Flaubert
between his fingers. He no longer resented Margot’s trouble; for the
moment it was his own, he had forgotten Gabrielle--all he remembered
was his little comrade facing Paris, with her intrepid eyes--it made
it no less wonderful that she faced it in great part for the sake of
Madame Selba, with the brandy bottle behind her; and to see that little
figure menaced and outraged by Monsieur Flaubert was more than Jean
felt called upon to bear. In the explosion that followed Margot became
conscious of three things--and the first was wholly good, because
it showed her how much Jean still cared for her; and the second was
magnificent, because it proved Jean to be what she knew he was--a
knight and hero; but the third was not quite so consolatory, because it
occurred to Margot that in Jean’s eyes the Toriallis had no fault at
all--apparently they were to be avenged too. It was obvious that Jean
considered that Flaubert had deceived them. Particularly Madame, of
course--this _lâcheté_ on the part of Louis would be incredible to her!