The door opened, and a dark, handsomely dressed woman entered. A glance
at her assured Jean that she belonged to that race whose marked
features, both physical and mental, have caused it to be the most
hated, feared, and despised in the world.

Hester Lévi was no bad example of her creed. She looked gracefully
immobile and rather feline, the only feature that lived in her little
expressionless face was her marvellous great eyes--out of them shone an
untameable fire. As she advanced to the centre of the room the little
group stood back to let her pass. She represented the two greatest
powers in the world--money and brains, and she made the many fat women
in the room look strangely insignificant beside her tiny forceful
little figure. She lifted her heavy eyelids and bowed unwillingly from
right to left.

“So you’re back!” said Pauline without rising. “But I might have known
that as soon as there was wind of the Toriallis coming you’d get to
know of it. I guess there isn’t much going on that you don’t know!”

Hester Lévi looked wearily about her before she loosened her heavy furs
and sank into a seat the great tenor stepped forward hastily to offer
her.

“Yes,” she said, without looking at Pauline. “I knew.”

“Well, you’d better tell me how long he means to take you for this
season?” said Pauline dryly; “then we can’t have another mix up.”

A curious light flickered across Mademoiselle Lévi’s eyes.

“I am to have extra time, I fancy,” she said, “to practise the solos
for _Parsifal_.”

There was a hush over the whole room--so Hester, then, was to take the
coveted part. A hurricane of short angry whispers arose in the further
corner of the room; the little group about Miriam and Pauline exchanged
glances.

Lucien laughed.

“So that affair’s settled then,” he said. “Mademoiselle is one of those
who arrive early and stay late. I felicitate her.”

Pauline looked straight in front of her, her eyes had an icy glitter in
them; she was profoundly angry and bitterly disappointed. Jean, looking
at her, felt a sick distaste for the whole performance--this, then, was
music--the goddess of his lonely soul! Was experience, then, merely
a prompt profanation of dreams? If so, what a pity ever to awake! A
silent, slender girl beside him made a stifled sound. She had worked
for four years upon the solo parts of _Parsifal_, and her voice was
worth three of the rich Jewess’s clever but mediocre gift. Hester Lévi
looked at her watch. There was a stir at the other end of the room. The
door opened quickly. A dapper-looking man of early middle age, rather
fat and very pink with an air of just having arrived from a lengthy
toilet, stepped briskly forward. He smiled continuously and rubbed his
plump little hands together. He spoke obsequiously to Hester Lévi.

“You will not be kept waiting more than one moment, I promise you,”
he said. “How charmingly you are looking this morning! I can see your
little holiday has agreed with you! Torialli is longing to hear how the
voice goes.”

He turned as if he meant to speak to Pauline.

“Ah! Mademoiselle--” he began.

Pauline stood up; her cold grey eyes fastened themselves like a gimlet
into the face of the man before her. The smile slipped from his face;
he turned white and flinched like a dog.

“Well,” said Pauline with a grim smile. “It seems I’m come back too,
Monsieur Flaubert. Torialli has arranged for me to have another
_accompagnateur_. A gentleman who knows how to do accounts, how to play
the piano, and how to behave!”

Flaubert stepped back a little and gave a slight grimace and a slighter
bow. “The gentleman is to be congratulated, I take it, Mademoiselle, on
his opportunity,” he replied softly. “Monsieur D’Ucelles is, I believe,
the name of this personage. I do not know yet if he has arrived.”

Jean stepped forward. The occasion seemed to him singularly
uncomfortable, but he tried to put some conciliation into his bow.

“Charmed,” murmured the affable Monsieur Flaubert, holding out a plump
pink hand.

Pauline stood stiff, angular, and impenetrable. Then she gave Jean the
slightest possible inclination of her head, and turned her back on
him; evidently she intended to have no recollection of a former meeting.