XV


IF Mahomet, on arriving at the foot of the mountain, had met with a
frank repulse from the object of his condescension--say, an earthquake
or a stream of molten lava--it would have been permissible on the part
of the prophet to feel a little hurt. So that Jean may be excused for
suffering the same kind of annoyance when the Banque de Paris et des
Pays-Bas shut their doors in his face.

It had been an effort for Jean to go back to them at all, an effort
that had at once attacked his independence and his pride, and having
made this sacrifice, he was not at all prepared to find that it
had been made in vain. His old friends, the fellow clerks, winked
sympathetically, and one of them even invited him to return for
lunch at noon. Jean refused his offer somewhat magnificently, little
dreaming that in a very short time he would look at a proffered meal
as one of the more important gifts of Heaven. He turned away from the
gloomy portals of his former prison-house and said to himself that he
was still free; as indeed he was, quite free, with Paris before him,
twenty francs in his pocket, and two extremely good suits of unpaid-for
clothes.

The weeks that followed seemed an incredible time to Jean to look back
upon--and yet, while they were passing it was every other time that
seemed incredible. They began quite easily with that useful lady known
in Paris as “_ma Tante_.” “_Ma Tante_” willingly accepted Jean’s gold
watch and chain, stooped to his tie-pin and few small articles of
jewellery, and by and by absorbed, with an increasingly small return,
all that he did not wear of his wardrobe. Jean belonged to that class
of society which knows what it is to do without some of its wants, but
to whom it is wholly inconceivable that it should ever be asked to do
without them all.

Jean informed Margot quite comfortably that a little went a long way,
but he took for granted that he should have a little. A line, he felt,
must be drawn somewhere, a D’Ucelles could hardly starve; and he was
very cheerful and quite funny about it to Margot. Margot, however, took
matters very seriously; she didn’t seem to think that lines are drawn
anywhere, or that there was anything essentially amusing in a D’Ucelles
without an overcoat.

She merely bought Jean a winter overcoat for a Christmas present. Jean
almost quarrelled with her on the subject; but Margot cried, and said
he couldn’t really be her friend unless he took it; so eventually they
went to early Mass together, and Jean wore the overcoat.

Then Jean got a job as guide to a large and ignorant English family,
who took an absorbing interest in the relics of Napoleon. While they
remained in Paris nothing further went to _ma Tante_ and Jean paid his
board regularly.

Unfortunately even Napoleon can be exhausted in time, and having
exhausted him, the English family returned reluctantly to Birmingham,
and Jean found himself explaining to Margot that he was too busy to
come in for meals; in the future he would take them out. Margot knew
perfectly well what that meant, and she arranged a sly system of
_goûters_ and early cups of coffee, which he found it almost impossible
to evade.

Liane had kept her word to Margot; she had used the whole power of a
popular and unscrupulous woman to destroy every chance she had made for
Jean. None of her friends would look at the little musician any more.
As for Maurice Golaud, he stated frankly that if he saw the fellow
again it would come to swords, and as everyone knew how shockingly
badly Maurice fenced, this was felt to prove how atrociously Liane’s
little musician must have behaved. Still, of course, everyone wished
that he would meet Golaud.

It occurred to Margot once to mention very timidly the fine uncle of
the motor and the fur overcoat, as a possible source of supply, but
when Jean said that he would rather settle the question with the Seine
she dropped the subject.

“After all,” Jean would sometimes say carelessly, “look what a time it
gives me for your voice; it would be almost a pity, _chérie_, to take
up anything else just now!”

It was true Margot did wonders with her new singing master; he put his
whole soul into Margot’s voice, he polished it like a careful jeweller
polishes his favourite jewel.

He thought and planned for it as he wandered to and fro, looking
for work, and found whatever warm corners there are to be found for
shabby vagrants in Paris. The Parc Monceaux was peculiarly given up to
Margot’s middle notes; he wanted them to be the best of all.

Every evening he took her to the theatre and waited for her to come
out; fortunately Margot never knew that one of the things Jean did
while he was waiting was to find cabs for that class of society who
do not find things easily for themselves. On one occasion Jean was so
fortunate as to find his Uncle Romain a vehicle, for which service that
unconscious gentleman rewarded him with a franc, the only assistance at
this time that Jean received from his relatives.