Margot blushed very deeply and her eyes fell before the laughter in
Romain’s. She felt as if a clear, hard light had fallen upon a little
shining secret of her own, a secret that lived best in the dark, and
which she herself had turned her eyes away from, lest they should see
that which desired to escape.

Of course she would do whatever Jean’s uncle thought best for Jean; and
naturally a future which promised fur-lined overcoats and a motor would
be best for Jean, but they couldn’t, poor Margot knew, be reconciled
with singing lessons on the _sixième étage_, so that her heart sank a
little as she knocked for admittance on Jean’s door.

Jean had given up expecting his uncle, and he was not particularly
pleased to see him. There was something in the contrast between
Romain’s air of finished ease and prosperity and Jean’s poor little
room and inexpensive appearance which made Jean feel rather ridiculous.
One might be superior to Romain and disagree fundamentally with his
sense of the values of life, but there was something about his bright,
amused incredulity in the presence of a higher standard which was apt
to make the higher standard look a trifle flat.

Romain sat down carefully in Jean’s only armchair, and regarded his
nephew, who clung to his music-stool as if it was a banner, with
tolerant amusement.

“My poor boy,” he began, “all this is very sad, isn’t it? Shall we
smoke?”

Jean felt a renewed pang as his uncle drew out his gold monogrammed
cigarette-case and passed it to him. He was determined to resist
Romain to the death, but he wished he had not to resist him to the
point of being laughed at!

“I’ve seen the little girl,” Romain continued, leaning back as
luxuriously as he could and letting his eyes wander over the embroidery
mats, the religious pictures, and all Margot’s ambitious attempts at
embellishments. “She’s charming, my dear boy, charming! The upper lip
is too long, the figure a little too straight, I should imagine that
after forty she might have to take precautions against a moustache;
but where there is freshness and bloom it does not do to look too
critically into these things. Yes, on the whole, I congratulate you!”

“I don’t know what you mean, _mon oncle_,” said Jean impatiently.
“There is nothing to congratulate me upon, I assure you! If you suppose
that Mademoiselle Selba----”

Romain waved his hand gently in the air and half closed his eyes.

“Ah, yes, yes!” he said. “Of course, you take the proper attitude;
only between ourselves, you know, Jean, a _fille de théâtre_ is one
thing and a _femme du monde_ is quite another; one alters one’s tone
accordingly. But I have come to speak seriously to you. You have made
a fatal mistake. I was really distressed to hear of it. A big folly
has about it something that attracts the eye--the world will forgive
much for the sake of an adventure; but a little folly--an obscure
intrigue with an unknown singer--my dear Jean, it is not a sin, it
is a muddle! When I first heard of your inconceivable good fortune
in a certain quarter, I was delighted, a little amused too at your
precipitate good fortune--the luck of the first throw! but grateful to
the good Liane. ‘_Enfin_,’ I said, ‘this begins his education, he is
at the height of felicity; work below his intelligence and happiness
beyond his means! what farther can a man desire?’ But, my good Jean,
you lack discrimination. This is a very grave fault. Let me implore you
to be careful! I used often to have this very question out with your
father. ‘Let me tell you,’ he used to say, ‘that with me, it is all or
nothing.’ I regretted it, for those who take that tone invariably begin
with all and end with nothing. Violence is a mistake, it destroys the
senses. In pleasure, my dear boy, as in delicate health, a little and
often is the best possible prescription. Now this kind of thing,” said
Romain, fingering a blue bead mat, “this kind of thing is very extreme;
it leads you nowhere.”

“I must protest, Uncle, once and for all,” said Jean firmly, “that I am
not here for my pleasure, and that my connection with Mademoiselle is
wholly innocent. I stay here with her and her mother because it happens
to be the only possible means of carrying on my career; but music is
absolutely the only tie between us.”

“Your career?” said Romain, and he looked at the piano, he looked at
Jean, and he looked at the rain on the window-pane. “If what you tell
me is true,” he added after a significant pause, “it is very much more
regrettable than anything I had supposed. A mistaken passion can be
rectified, but a mistaken virtue is apt to remain upon one’s hands.
Pray do not lose your temper; I take your word for it, of course. It
confirms me in my opinion of innocence. It is a quality which damps the
imagination. It reminds me of a wet day I once spent in the country.
Well, my dear Jean, you have, I take it, innocence and your career and
six flights of stairs to climb daily; pray, does it amuse you, this
combination?”