This made Lewis very unhappy. He went about haunted with the feeling
that he was Mrs. Blair’s enemy. He began to hate the idea of the race
as much as he had once been captivated by it. This was not lost on
Skelton.

Before that, the two boys had showed much elation over their
coming prominence at the race meeting. When they met they assumed
great knowingness in discussing turf matters, which they only half
understood, and put on mannish airs to each other. Instead of “Lewis”
and “Hilary,” as it had once been, it became “Pryor” and “Blair.” But
afterward Hilary was surprised to find a great want of enthusiasm
in Lewis. He spoke of it to his father, and Blair at once fancied
that Lewis had shown the white feather. He told it triumphantly
to Elizabeth, and adduced it as another proof that he had a “sure
thing.” Elizabeth, though, was not so confident. She had seen too many
disappointments come of Blair’s “sure things.”

Skelton had not intended to return Blair’s last visit until after the
race meeting, but the conviction that Blair would lose the race induced
him to go over one day in the early spring to pay a visit, thinking it
would be very painful to seek Blair out in defeat. So he drove over
in his stylish curricle. Hilary met him at the door of the Newington
house, and Skelton mentally compared him to Lewis Pryor, much to
Lewis’s advantage. Skelton, though, scarcely did Hilary justice. The
boy had his father’s physique and Blair’s wide mouth and white teeth,
and also a great many freckles; but he had his mother’s charming
expression. He escorted Skelton within the house.

Blair at once appeared, and with much apparent cordiality led the way
into the old-fashioned drawing-room, where Elizabeth sat sewing, with
little Mary at her knee. An Arab hospitality prevailed among these
people, and enemies were welcomed at each other’s houses.

They talked together very amicably without once mentioning the subject
which was uppermost in all their minds, until suddenly Hilary, with
that maladroit ingenuity of which boys seem peculiarly possessed, asked
suddenly:

“Mr. Skelton, how’s Lewis Pryor coming on with Jaybird?”

“Admirably,” responded Skelton with the utmost coolness.

Blair had turned red, while Elizabeth had grown pale. Only little Mary
sat and sewed unconcernedly.

“I think,” said Elizabeth, after an awkward pause, and expressing the
first idea that came into her mind, “it is the last race I will ever
consent to let Hilary ride. I don’t think it does boys any good to
interest them in such things.”

Here was an opportunity for Skelton to hit back for Blair’s sneer at
Lewis Pryor when the match was first arranged.

“If you have the slightest objection to it,” he said blandly, “speak
only one word and it is off. I need not say to you that I should regard
the forfeit as nothing, and even give up the pleasure of seeing my
horse matched against Mr. Blair’s, rather than give you one moment’s
pain.”

“Ah, no,” cried Elizabeth--she had taken fire at Skelton’s tone, and
hastened to redeem herself from the humiliation of trying to get out of
it.

Blair simply glared at her. He thought Elizabeth had lost her senses;
and before she could utter another word, he said, with a kind of savage
coolness: “Certainly not. But if you think that your--young ward, is
he--?”

“Lewis Pryor is not my ward, he is Mr. Bulstrode’s,” responded Skelton,
without the slightest change of tone. But there was a flush rising in
his dark face. Blair managed to convey, subtly, a contempt of the boy,
which was to Skelton the most infuriating thing under heaven.

“Very well, then, whatever he is; if you feel any doubts of his ability
to manage a horse--”

“I don’t feel the slightest doubt,” answered Skelton, the flush
mounting higher and showing dully through his olive skin. “It is a pity
that this young gentleman should have started the one subject that
we cannot discuss. It is difficult to teach a boy tact--impossible,
almost, for when they are tactful it is born with them.”

This, delivered in Skelton’s graceful manner, left the impression upon
the mind of Blair and his wife that Skelton had very artfully called
their boy a lout. However, he then turned his attention to little Mary,
the childish image of her mother. Mary answered his questions correctly
and demurely, and presently startled them by asking when Mr. Lewis
Pryor was coming over to give her a ride on his pony.

The child had met him riding about the roads and at church, and they
had struck up an acquaintance, with the result of this promise. But
as Lewis had never been to Newington, and, in fact, had never been
asked, this increased the prevailing discomfort. Skelton, though, with
elaborate ease, promised to find out from Lewis and let her know.
Neither Mr. nor Mrs. Blair took any part in the discussion, and they
altogether ignored Lewis’s existence. All the ingenuity in the world
could not have devised anything more galling to Skelton.