“He is not really handsome,” she said to herself, looking at him with
ineffable tenderness; “but people had eyes for nobody else when he was
before them. And how strangely young he looks! and so like Lewis!” For
the wonderful youthfulness which death sometimes restores to the human
countenance made Skelton and Lewis most extraordinarily alike at that
moment.

“And how happy we should have been!” she continued, half aloud. “I
meant to have made him love me more through that boy. I took very
meekly the love he gave me, because I knew the time would come when it
would be all mine--all--all. It came at the very moment that we were
forever parted.”

Sylvia bent down to kiss the cold face, and suddenly drew back,
blushing redly, and looking about to see if she was watched--it had
so entirely escaped her that this was not Skelton. She put her warm
young arms around his neck, and kissed him a dozen times, when in a
moment the coldness, the horrible insensibility before her penetrated
her heart. She darted up and ran wildly to the door, almost knocking
Conyers over, who was just about to enter. She seized his hand, and,
trembling violently, cried out:

“I was just a moment ago in love with a corpse--with a dead man, who
could not open his eyes or feel or hear anything; and was it not most
unnatural and horrible? Pray, let us go--”

Conyers caught her cold hands in his, and the words he was about to
speak died on his lips, so much did Sylvia’s face appal him. She flew
out of the house, across the lawn, and was almost at the bridge before
Conyers caught up with her.

“You will kill yourself,” he said breathlessly, but Sylvia only sped on.

There had been no sleep at Belfield that night. A messenger had been
sent to Mr. and Mrs. Shapleigh, but they could not get home before
morning. As Sylvia rushed into the house as if pursued, Conyers said:

“Let me send for Mrs. Blair.”

“No, I will be alone,” answered Sylvia.

“God will be with you,” said Conyers.

“Yes,” replied Sylvia, walking about the dimly lighted hall, “God will
be with me. I have had a great many doubts, as you know. I asked--”
She stopped in her restless walk and tried to speak Skelton’s name,
but could not. She continued: “He always put me off gently. He told me
those people were best off who could believe in God, the Father of us
all; that it was very simple, but simple things were usually the best.
He told me I might read a great deal--my mind was very eager on the
subject--but that those who claim God is not proved cannot themselves
prove he is not. And I can even believe in the goodness of God now,
for, at the very moment that I was to lose--” She still could not speak
Skelton’s name, and indicated it by a pause--“I had one moment of
rapture that was worth a lifetime of pain. I found out that _he_ loved
me better than he had ever loved anything on earth. Nothing can ever
rob me of that moment. I shall carry it through this world and into the
next, where there is a glorious possibility that we may meet again.”

She turned, and went quietly and noiselessly up the broad, winding
stair. She looked like a white shadow in the gloomy half-light. About
midway the stair, her form, that to Conyers, watching her, had grown
dimmer at every step, melted softly into the darkness.

Conyers turned and left the house.

When he reached Deerchase again everything was solemnly quiet. In a
corner of the hall Bulstrode was sitting by the round table, with
a lamp on it, leaning his head upon his hands. Lewis was sleeping
upstairs, and Blair was watching him. Conyers, ever mindful of others,
sent the servants off to bed and closed the house. He would be the
watcher for the rest of the night. It was then about two o’clock in the
morning. Conyers went into the library and looked long and fearlessly
at that which lay so peacefully on the sofa. Death had no terrors for
him. He believed the human soul worth everything in the world, but the
body, living or dead, mattered but little.

On the table lay a riding glove of Skelton’s, still retaining the shape
of the fingers. Scraps of his writing were about--two letters, sealed
and addressed--a book with the paper knife still lying between its
uncut leaves. Conyers, calm and almost stoical, looked at it all, and
then, going into the hall, sat down at the table where Bulstrode was,
and, opening a small Bible in his pocket, began to read the Gospel of
St. Matthew. The light from the lamp fell upon his stern features, that
to the ordinary eye were commonplace enough, but to the keener one
were full of spirituality. He was half-educated, but wholly good. He
wandered and blundered miserably, but faith and goodness dwelt within
him.

After a while Bulstrode spoke, his rich voice giving emphasis to his
earnest words: