Sylvia, from motives of prudence, placed herself next him on the other
side. Having a humorous knack, Sylvia could very often turn Mrs.
Shapleigh’s speeches into the safe channel of a joke. At the other end
of the table old Tom had beside him Mrs. Blair, who was quite a pet of
his. Skelton, with infinite tact, talked as if he had been one of them
for the last fifteen years, instead of having been indulging in all
sorts of startling adventures abroad while they were vegetating in the
country.

The conversation pretty soon got on racing, for the Campdown course was
to them their opera, drive, lecture, concert--everything, in short,
except the church. Conyers was quite out of this conversation, and
was used to being so. Bulstrode likewise found it a bore, and took
refuge in gulping down glass after glass of sherry, port, madeira,
champagne--any and every thing that came to hand. But he did not enjoy
it, although old Tom’s cellar was not to be despised. He feared and
revered a good woman, and the presence of the ladies took all the
taste out of the wine and utterly disconcerted him. He had often said
to Skelton: “Curse me, if I can drink comfortably in the presence of
women. They are a standing rebuke to such old ruffians as I.” Skelton,
however, entered into the spirit of the racing talk as if it were of
the greatest possible moment. But it was a very delicate one in Blair’s
presence. Too often had Skelton’s colours--black and yellow--come
in ahead of Blair’s blue jackets and white caps. Skelton and Blair,
though, each showed a gentlemanly obliviousness of all this.

Skelton, however, chose to admire a certain colt of old Tom Shapleigh’s
in a way that made Blair prick up his ears.

“I was walking across your pasture the other day--trespassing, in fact,
as I have half forgotten my own land--when I saw that black horse of
yours--”

“Alabaster!” cried Sylvia. “He is so black that I could not find a name
black enough for him, so I went by the rule of contrary. He is to be my
riding horse.”

“Yes,” groaned old Tom ruefully, “Sylvia says she will have him. He
isn’t a full thoroughbred, but he has some good blood in him, and I
wanted to sell him to somebody, like our friend Blair here, who would
find out how much speed there is in him, for he has it unquestionably.
But he pleases my girl, and she proposes to keep me out of a snug sum
of money in order that she may have a fine black horse to ride. Zounds!
Skelton, I’m the most petticoat-ridden man in this county.”

“No horse is too good for Miss Shapleigh,” answered Skelton, with
gallantry; “but if she could be persuaded that another horse, with a
coat as smooth and a tail as long as Alabaster’s, could carry her, I
should like to see a match between him and that long-legged bay of
mine--Jaybird, I believe, is his name.”

Now Jaybird was the gem of Skelton’s stable, and had beaten everything
against which she had been matched since her _début_, so that to say
that Alabaster possibly had too much foot for her, at once put the
black horse in the category of great horses.

“If you can persuade Sylvia to let me sell him, I’d be delighted,” said
old Tom, with his cheery laugh; “but I’ll not answer for your success
with her. Women are mysterious creatures, my dear Skelton.”

“Undoubtedly they are,” replied Skelton gravely. “Miss Shapleigh
wants Alabaster because she wants Alabaster. Nothing could be more
conclusive.”

“You are quite right,” said Sylvia airily; “and when we cease to be
mysterious and inconsequent we shall cease to charm.”

“Whateley, the old dunderhead, says,” began Bulstrode in his deep, rich
voice, and with perfect seriousness, “that women are always reaching
wrong conclusions from the right premises, and right conclusions from
the wrong premises”; at which everybody laughed, and Sylvia answered:

“Then, as our premises are always wrong, our conclusions must be always
right. Mr. Skelton, I shall keep Alabaster.”

“And my horse, Jaybird, will keep his reputation,” said Skelton, with
his slight but captivating smile.

The instant Skelton said this Blair was possessed with the desire to
own Alabaster. The idea of such a horse being reserved for a girl’s
riding! It was preposterous. Racing in those days was by no means
the fixed and formal affair it is now. It was not a business, but a
sport, and as such each individual had great latitude in the way he
followed it. Matches were among the commonest as well as among the most
interesting forms it took, and a match between Jaybird and Alabaster
struck Blair as of all things the most desirable; and in an instant
he resolved to have Alabaster, if the wit of man could contrive it.
He would show old Tom the weakness, the wickedness, of his conduct
in letting himself be wrapped around Sylvia’s little finger in that
way, and, if necessary, he would try his persuasive powers on Sylvia
herself. Women were not usually insensible to his cajolery.