But after a moment Sylvia said something which suddenly filled
Skelton’s soul with melancholy:

“Some day--when the great book is written--you will be the most famous
man in the country, and I shall be the proudest woman,” she said with a
little vain, proud air.

The light died out of Skelton’s eyes, and he could hardly resist a
movement of impatience. Everywhere, even in his most sacred love, he
was pursued by this phantom of what he was to do.

Sylvia presently sat down, and Skelton, drawing his chair near her,
hung over her fondly. He knew perfectly well how to make her happy. He
expressed in a hundred delicate ways the tenderness he felt for her;
while Sylvia--proud Sylvia--was so meek and sweet that he scarcely knew
her; so forgiving, so trustful. After all, thought Skelton, there was a
philosophy better than that to be found in the books.

The storm was now over, and suddenly a mocking-bird outside the window
burst into a heavenly song. Skelton went to the wide hall doors and
threw them open. The sinking sun was shining upon a new heaven and a
new earth. The trees, the grass, the shrubbery were diamonded with
drops and sparkling brilliantly; the river ran joyously; the damp,
sweet-scented air had a delicious freshness; all Nature was refreshed
and glad. Skelton felt that it was like his own life--a sunset calm
after a storm. He felt not only a happier man than he had been for many
years, but a better man.

Half an hour after, when Skelton and Sylvia were sitting together
in the cool, dark drawing-room, the door suddenly opened, and Mrs.
Shapleigh sailed in, followed by old Tom. The sight that met their eyes
might well paralyse them--Skelton, with his arm on Sylvia’s chair, his
dark head almost resting on her bright hair; her hand was raised to his
lips. Being a self-possessed lover, he did not commit the _gaucherie_
of dropping her hand, but held on to it firmly, saying coolly:

“Fairly caught, we are, Sylvia.”

Mrs. Shapleigh uttered a faint shriek, while old Tom raised his
bristling eyebrows up to the fringe of grey hair over his forehead.

Mrs. Shapleigh sank down, overcome by astonishment. Old Tom walked up
to Skelton, and said, with a broad grin:

“So you have bamboozled my girl?”

“Completely,” answered Skelton.

Sylvia at that got up and scurried out of the room, with Mrs. Shapleigh
after her.

Mr. Shapleigh and his whilom ward faced each other.

“The game’s up,” was old Tom’s remark.

“Apparently,” answered Skelton, smiling; “and, as the consent of the
father is usually asked, I am quite willing to ask it now.”

“I don’t know that it matters much in any case--least of all in
this--because my daughter Sylvia has a spirit that I have never seen
equalled in man or woman. I have sometimes seen horses who had it.
That’s your prospect, Skelton.”

“I’ll risk it gladly,” answered Skelton, who knew well how to play the
dauntless lover.

“And she has given in to you--the only creature, by Jove! she ever
_did_ give in to. But, Skelton, there’s one thing--”

Skelton knew exactly what was coming.

“There is that boy, Lewis Pryor.”

“Miss Shapleigh and I have agreed upon that,” replied Skelton in a
tone which put a stop to any further discussion. “If she is satisfied,
nobody else can complain.”

“Not even her parents?”

“See here, Mr. Shapleigh, we know each other too well to beat about the
bush. You know your daughter will marry me if she says she will. You
haven’t just known her yesterday.”

“She will, by the powers of heaven!” burst out Mr. Shapleigh; “and so,
I suppose, as you say, it is hardly worth while to talk about it. But,
for the sake of the thing, here’s my hand and my consent with it.”

“Thank you,” answered Skelton, with grim politeness, and taking his hat
at the same time.