The red-brown pasture-land glowed in the setting sun, and the masses
of gorgeous sumac that bordered the field made great dashes of colour
in the landscape. A worm fence divided the two plantations, and upon
this fence Blair leaned, meditatively watching the horses as they
champed about the field. Elizabeth, who was far-sighted, could see him
perfectly well, his stalwart and somewhat overgrown figure outlined
against the twilight sky. A negro boy came through the field whistling,
and singing, to drive the horses into the stable lot at Belfield. He
shied a stick at Alabaster to make him move on. At that Blair sprang
over the fence, and, seizing the boy, shook him so violently that
Elizabeth was frightened, thinking he might really be harmed by Blair
in his rage.

He came home moodily, and told Elizabeth that he believed he could kill
any creature that hurt an animal as valuable as Alabaster. Elizabeth
believed him, after what she had just seen.

Next morning Blair went over to bargain for the horse. Old Tom was
disinclined to sell, and as he talked Blair grew paler and paler. At
last old Tom declared that Sylvia might decide. He had told her the
horse was hers. He didn’t care for the money particularly, although the
horse was certainly worth a good price, and was very speedy, but if
Sylvia chose to part with him it was all right.

Sylvia, on getting a message from her father, tripped down to the
stable lot, where the two men were talking. The morning was warm and
bright, even for the bright October season, and Sylvia wore a white
dress and a large black hat. She had a wild-rose bloom in her cheek,
and was altogether uncommonly pretty that morning. Blair was usually
very observant and appreciative of women’s looks, but no woman that
lived could have taken his attention off from Alabaster at that moment.
Old Tom stated the case, and then walked away, laughing.

“You and Sylvia settle it between you,” he cried. “If she chooses to
sell him I’ll take what you offered me. If not, she wouldn’t let me
sell him for the whole of Newington plantation.”

“I wouldn’t either, if he were my property,” answered Blair, with a
smile upon his handsome ruddy face that had, however, quite a strange
look upon it.

“Now, Miss Sylvia, can’t you let me have him?” he asked, as soon as old
Tom was out of the way.

Sylvia did not at all take in Blair’s intense desire to own the horse.
“Why, Mr. Blair,” she said pettishly, “_I_ want the horse. He is a
splendid riding horse, and I have looked forward to having him for such
a long time.”

Blair threw up his hands in a kind of despair. What creatures women
were! Could they ever be made to understand the great affairs of life?
Sylvia, who was quick of apprehension, caught in a moment the look
which revealed an unsuspected turn in Blair’s character. His expression
was desperate.

“But--but--do you _want_ him very much?” suddenly asked Sylvia.

“Want him!” cried Blair. “Great God!”

Sylvia looked at him in dumb amazement. Blair’s features were
working--he seemed to be asking for something as dear to him as his own
children.

“I don’t think you know how much I want this horse,” he said, with
furious entreaty in his voice and his eyes. “This horse is worth
everything to me, and without him life itself is worth nothing to
me, because I am undoubtedly ruined unless I can get a horse to beat
Skelton’s Jaybird. Alabaster can do it. I don’t know of any other horse
that can. It is not only that I may recoup what I have lost--for I tell
you I’d risk my own soul almost on Alabaster’s coming under the wire
first with Jaybird--but there is feud between Skelton and me, feud such
as you never dreamed of. I hate him, and he hates me.”

Sylvia hesitated for a moment. Blair hung upon her words. She was
serious enough now. Her lips moved once or twice as she patted the
grass with her foot. Of course, it was all over, that childish romance
about Skelton. She was now a young woman nearly out of her twenties,
and he was nearing his fortieth birthday; and, besides, she had nothing
to do with any rivalry on the turf between him and Mr. Blair, nor did
she believe that Alabaster was as certain to carry everything before
him as Blair thought. But--but--she recoiled from being the means of a
possible defeat to Skelton. She knew well enough that there was great
feeling on both sides in these matters between Blair and Skelton, and
she knew Skelton to be unforgiving to the last degree. She raised her
clear grey eyes to Blair’s face, but the expression on it made her
turn a little pale. It was not only fiercely entreating, but it had
a menace in it. Blair, indeed, felt a savage impulse to seize this
slight creature and actually force her to let him have the horse. But
the pity that dwells in every woman’s heart now rose in Sylvia’s. She
felt so sorry for him--he had told her he would be ruined if he did not
get Alabaster; so, after a few moments, painful on both sides, Sylvia
suddenly held out her hand, and said: