Skelton ran the boat’s nose ashore within twenty yards of her, and,
jumping out, went to her, splashing through the water.

“Oh, oh!” screamed poor Sylvia, “my foot--he’s got my foot!”

Skelton raised her small white foot out of the water, and in half a
minute the crab was dexterously “spancelled” and thrown away, but there
was a cruel mark on the child’s foot, and blood was coming. She looked
at Skelton with wide, frightened eyes, crying bitterly all the time.

“Come, my dear,” said Skelton, soothingly, “let me pick you up and
carry you home.”

“I d-d-don’t want to go home,” wailed Sylvia.

“But something must be done for your foot, child.”

“Then take me to Deerchase, and let Mammy Kitty do it.”

Skelton was puzzled by the child’s unwillingness to go home. But Sylvia
soon enlightened him.

“If I g-go home mamma will scold me, and she will cry over me, and make
me keep on crying, and that will make my head ache; and if I can get
s-something done for my foot--”

“But won’t your mother be frightened about you if I take you to
Deerchase?” asked Skelton.

“No--ooo--oo!” bawled Sylvia, still weeping; “she lets me stay out
until sundown. And she’ll make _such_ a fuss over my foot if I go home!”

Determination was expressed in every line of Sylvia’s tearful, pretty
face. Skelton silently went back to the shore, got her shoes and
stockings, went to his boat and brought it up, Sylvia meanwhile keeping
up a furious beating of the water with her forked stick to frighten
the crabs off. Skelton lifted her in the boat, and they sailed along
to the Deerchase landing. Sylvia wiped her feet on the curtain of her
sunbonnet, put on her stockings and one shoe, and nursed the injured
foot tenderly. Skelton lifted her out on the little stone pier he had
had built, and then proceeded to take down the sail and tie the boat.

“I think,” said Sylvia calmly, “you’ll have to carry me to the house.”

“Hadn’t you better let me send for my _calèche_ and pair for you?”
gravely asked Skelton.

“Oh, no,” cried Sylvia briskly, and Skelton without a word picked her
up and walked across the grassy lawn to the house. She was very light,
and, except for flapping her wet sunbonnet in his face, he had no
objection whatever to her. He carried her up the steps into the hall,
and then turned her over to Mammy Kitty, who wrapped her foot in wet
cabbage-leaves. Skelton went to the library. Presently, Bob Skinny’s
woolly head was thrust in the door.

“Please, sah, Mr. Skelton, de young lady say will you please to come
d’yar?”

Skelton, smiling at himself, rose and went back to the hall. Sylvia was
perched on one foot, like a stork.

“I think,” she said, “if you’ll give me your arm I can walk around and
look at the pretty things. Whenever I’ve been here with mamma she has
always asked so many questions that I didn’t like to ask any myself.”

“You may ask any questions you like,” replied Skelton, still smiling.
He never remembered exchanging a word with the child before. He had
taken for granted that she was her mother’s own daughter, and as such
he had no wish to cultivate her.

But Sylvia was not at all like her mother. She limped around the hall,
looking gravely at the portraits.

The Skeltons were a handsome family, if the portraits could be
believed. They were all dark, with clear-cut faces and high aquiline
noses like Skelton’s, and they were all young.

“_We_ have some portraits, you know,” remarked Sylvia, “but they are
all old and ugly. Now, all of these are of pretty little girls and boys
or handsome young ladies.”

“The Skeltons are not a long-lived family,” said Skelton. “They
generally die before forty. Here is one--Janet Skelton--a little girl
like you. She died at eighteen.”

Sylvia turned her grey eyes full of a limpid green light towards him
pityingly.

“Aren’t you going to live long?”