Elizabeth listened, startled and annoyed. She had felt some qualms at
the idea that, even if Lewis Pryor should make a successful fight for
his supposed parentage, her children should inherit money that was only
theirs through accident and bungling. But there was nobody else with
any better right to it, for the late Mrs. Skelton had fully determined
that her own family should not have it. And besides, it would be after
Skelton’s death--for she did not for a moment suppose that he would
marry. But this way of setting up an immediate claim to it offended
her. Being a singularly high-minded woman, she did not value money very
greatly, and had many delicate scruples regarding it.

“But--but--you don’t mean that you would take any steps--” she asked
hesitatingly.

“Just wait and see,” answered Blair promptly. “And Skelton may marry,
remember. I think he admires Sylvia Shapleigh very much; and you may
depend upon it, I sha’n’t refuse anything that is mine.”

Elizabeth for the first time in her life felt a little disgusted with
him.

“I am afraid you are not as high-minded as I thought you,” she said
after a moment.

Blair withdrew his arm from around her with displeasure written all
over his strong, expressive face. He began to finger his cigar, which
was a hint that she had better leave him. Usually Elizabeth never
remained a moment after she found she was trespassing, but to-night she
sat quite still. A quarrel between two extremely refined, courteous,
and attached persons is none the less bitter because each one is
scrupulously polite. Blair said, after a few moments:

“Your remark is quite uncalled for, and let me tell you, Elizabeth,
a man knows much more about these things than a woman. A man must be
trusted to manage his own affairs; and if he is incapable, another man
ought to be appointed his conservator.”

Blair had mismanaged his own affairs so beautifully that this sentiment
was peculiarly absurd coming from him. He glanced at Elizabeth and saw
something like a half-smile upon her face. She said nothing, but her
silence was eloquent. Blair wished then for the thousandth time that
Elizabeth would show her displeasure as other women did--with tears and
unguarded words and reproaches, or even as Mrs. Shapleigh did.

“I believe,” she said, after a long and painful pause, “that if the
dead woman had her choice she would be very willing for Lewis Pryor
to have the money, because Richard Skelton loves him so, and because
she loved Richard Skelton so. But I am afraid--I am afraid--it has
just occurred to me--that she would detest the idea of our having it,
because Richard Skelton hates us so. And there cannot be any blessing
attached to money that comes in that way.”

“Damme!” cried Blair rudely.

Elizabeth rose at once. Like him, she was extremely dainty in her ideas
of behaviour, and the only sort of henpecking she ever visited upon
Blair was the strict account she held him to as regarded his manners to
her, which, however, Blair was quite ready to accord usually. Even now
he felt immediate remorse, and held out his hand.

“Forgive me,” he said; “but it seems to me, Elizabeth, that we are
saying very odd and uncomfortable things to each other to-night.”

Elizabeth submitted to be drawn to him, and even to rest her head again
upon his shoulder; but the quarrel between husband and wife had to be
fought out as much as if they were a thousand miles apart. Blair tried
some of his old flattery on her.

“You know I could not forbear any triumph over Skelton--and you know
why. I want the money, but I want revenge, too; and revenge is a much
more gentlemanly vice than avarice, as vices go. However, you never saw
a man in your life who was indifferent to money.”

“Yes, I have--Mr. Conyers.”

“Pooh--a parson!”

“And Lewis Pryor. Mr. Bulstrode says he believes the boy will actually
fight against being made Richard Skelton’s heir, so much more does he
value respectable parentage than money.”

“Pooh--a boy!”

“And I assure you, that many things might make _me_ regret we have that
money, if it comes.”

“Pshaw--a woman!”

“It may be that only parsons, boys, and women are indifferent to money;
but if my son showed--as I hope he would--the same jealous solicitude
for his honour and mine that Lewis Pryor does for his and his mother’s,
I should indeed be proud of him. Fancy,” she said, raising herself and
looking at Blair with luminous eyes, “the bribe of a great fortune
being offered to Hilary if he would cast shame on his mother! And would
I not rather see him dead before my eyes than yielding?”