“Yes,” answered Mrs. Blair, smiling a little. “It helps us over the
stony part of the road. I have been with my boy all day, and I found I
wanted a tonic for my mind; so I took up this book, and actually forgot
my poor Hilary for a few moments.”

“Is the boy improving, ma’am?”

“I am afraid not. He cannot yet leave his bed. His father and I are
with him all the time, one or the other. Do you know, Mr. Bulstrode,
I never realise what an admirable man my husband is until I see him
with his children. If you but knew how tender and interesting and
even fascinating he is to them! And if only Hilary--gets well--” Mrs.
Blair’s voice broke. “Ah, Mr. Bulstrode, I fear so much--I fear--he
will never be well--although--I try--”

Mrs. Blair burst unexpectedly into tears. This nearly distracted
Bulstrode. He took out his handkerchief and fairly blubbered, saying
between gasps:

“Now, pray don’t, my dear Mrs. Blair--my sweet, sweet creetur’--”
Bulstrode’s grief was inexpressibly ludicrous.

But after a moment or two Mrs. Blair recovered herself and apologised
for her sudden weakness.

“I have had much to try me,” she said, “and then the prospect of being
turned out of this place--”

“Have you made any arrangements to go elsewhere?” asked Bulstrode.

Mrs. Blair shook her head. “My husband would not ask it of his
creditors, but it would be to his advantage if he were allowed to
remain at Newington. He has really done wonderfully well here, and has
made crops that were much better than any his father ever made off the
place. It has all gone, of course, on the Campdown track--but still the
money was made; and now that my husband is done with the turf forever,
I believe in a few years’ time he could be on his feet again.”

“I suppose you are attached to this place?” continued Bulstrode.

“Yes,” cried Mrs. Blair with tears in her voice. “I don’t know why
especially, except that I am prone to become attached to places and
people. And, remember, I have lived here ever since I began to think
and feel. It seems to me that the troubles I have had tie me to it as
much as the joys, and they have been many, Mr. Bulstrode. They were not
the griefs you read about in books, but those plain every-day sorrows
that come to women’s hearts.”

Mrs. Blair stopped; she had uttered no complaint heretofore, and the
habit of forbearance was strong upon her. She went to the window
and looked out. The clouds had melted away and a summer moon shone
fitfully, flooding the river with its silver light. She was recalled by
hearing her name uttered by Bulstrode in a curious voice. She resumed
her chair and turned her delicate profile towards Bulstrode.

“Mrs. Blair,” said he hesitatingly, “have you never speculated upon
what becomes of Skelton’s fortune from his wife if he should marry
again, or at his death? for you know, of course, that it is only his
until one of those things happens.”

“We have heard a great deal of talk, but, naturally, we feel a delicacy
at making any enquiries about it.”

“Delicacy be hanged!” cried Bulstrode, rising. “Do you know, ma’am,
that it’s quite possible--quite probable--that some day you and your
children will have all that money?”

“I cannot think that,” answered Mrs. Blair, rising, too, and supposing
that Bulstrode meant that Skelton might leave it to them. “Although
I am Mr. Skelton’s nearest relative, there is no love lost between
us--and my husband and he are at feud. I am sure Mr. Skelton would
never wish us to benefit by anything he had.”

“But,” cried Bulstrode excitedly, “he can’t help it--he can’t help it!
Don’t you suppose he would if he could?”

Mrs. Blair turned very pale. “What do you mean?” she asked.

“I mean,” said Bulstrode, in his impressive voice, “I mean that by
the fondness of a woman Skelton became possessed of a great fortune;
and by her jealousy it is only his until his death or marriage; and by
her folly it all descends to his heirs. He cannot control one shilling
of his wife’s fortune--it goes to his heirs. And you--_you_--_you_ and
your children are Skelton’s heirs!”

Mrs. Blair was completely dazed by what she heard and by Bulstrode’s
vehemence. His agitation, too, was contagious. She felt herself
trembling, because she saw Bulstrode’s tremor.

“What do you mean?” she stammered.