EBOOK CLUTCH OF MORPHEUS ***





CLUTCH OF MORPHEUS

By LARRY STERNIG

[Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
Thrilling Wonder Stories Winter 1946.
Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


At the doorway of the building that combined the home and laboratory of
Dr. Felder, Wayne Randall almost changed his mind. Then he said, "What
the devil. Why not?" and rang the bell. It would, he hoped, embark him
on a great adventure--an adventure into a strange world he had never
known.

A red-headed girl in a white uniform answered the ring. Wayne caught
his breath at the fresh clean beauty of the face framed by the sleek,
wavy, auburn hair. At the contrast of that hair with the blue eyes. And
at the slim but rounded figure.

Then he was aware that she had spoken, and flushed slightly at the
realization of how hard he must have been staring.

"Is Doctor Felder in?" he asked, with embarrassment.

She nodded.

"Do you have an appointment? Dad is retired from active practice, you
know. Doing research in anesthesia."

"I'm not a patient--exactly," Wayne assured her. "It's in connection
with his research that I'd like to see him. My name is Wayne Randall."

She opened the door wider.

"Come in, Mr. Randall. I'll see if he's busy."

[Illustration: "Will you wait?" the doctor's daughter asked Randall.]

He waited near a window and watched the comet that hung low in the
western sky. And in common with the other millions of people who were
watching Rackam's comet of 1954, Wayne wondered whether the scientists
were correct in stating that it would not affect conditions on earth.

But probably the astronomers knew what they were talking about.

The comet had changed amazingly since its first appearance. From a long
graceful curve, its tail had now shortened to a broad-based triangle.
In another day or so, comet and tail alike would be invisible from
earth. For it was passing between earth and sun, on an orbital plane
almost coinciding with the earth. The comet would be lost in the glare
of the sun. Even now it was visible for only an hour or two of early
evening. Earth would pass through its gaseous tail, was even now
entering the outer fringe of those gasses.

Wayne Randall shrugged, and turned from the window. After all, the
astrophysicists knew more than he. True, they disagreed as to the exact
chemical composition of the comet's tail, but they were unanimous in
saying that it was too tenuous, too insubstantial, to affect earth or
its organic life. It would take hundreds of thousands of cubic feet of
the comet's gasses to equal in density a cubic inch of air, they said.

Well, thought Wayne, if they were that thin, probably the physicists
were right. He put the unimportant matter of the comet far back in his
mind as the girl reappeared and escorted him to the laboratory.

Dr. Felder, a volatile little man with a pointed sandy beard and heavy
shell-rimmed glasses, leaped up from a chair in which he had been
sitting before a bench lined with cages.

He pumped Wayne's hand vigorously.

"Glad to meet you, Doctor Randall," he said in a voice that matched his
handshake. "I can't recall your name, but so many are doing excellent
research in narcosis today. Everybody but me." He turned back toward
the work bench, ran an excited hand through his thinning hair, and then
grimaced humorously. "My subjects seem too sleepy. None of these darned
guinea pigs will stay awake long enough to act as controls."

Wayne Randall grinned. He decided he was going to like this excitable
little man as well, or almost as well as he could like his
auburn-haired daughter.