“_Cried_ all the time?”

“Um--’m.” Mrs. Johnson firmed her lips to a straight line, and nodded
her head up and down heavily. “Yes, they couldn’t do one thing with
him.”

“But--but what was the matter with him?” Julie persisted.

“I don’t know. He just cried all the time. Lost his nerve, I reckon.
They sent him back home. They said he wasn’t no good to them. His
father feels terrible; says he always was a nervous kind of a boy, an’
his mother humored him along till she just ruined him.”

“Oh, the poor boy!” Julie cried.

“Well my Lord, Julie! Just s’pose all our men were like that; what
would Uncle Sam do?”

“Oh, of course, I know. Only--how awful it was for him!”

“Well, I’m mighty glad he ain’t _my_ son,” Aunt Sadie retorted. “It’ll
be a thing people’ll throw up against him all his life. Folks won’t
forget it in a hurry. Well,”--she dragged her large figure up out of
the plush rocker,--“If you won’t go with me to the picture show, I
reckon I’ll just have to go ask Mis’ Bixby; she’s better’n no company.”

She went, and after a little Julie heard her and Elizabeth Bixby
setting forth. Julie sat on alone, knitting under the light, her mind
filled with distressful thoughts about the Chapin boy, who found camp
so awful and the prospect of death in France so overpowering, that he
could do nothing but cry. “How dreadful!” Julie thought. “What was the
matter with him? What made him go to pieces like that? Other men stood
up against it; what was the matter with the Chapin boy? Oh, the poor
boy! The poor thing! How frightful to give way like that, with all the
camp to see!”

As far as she could remember, she had never talked to the Chapin boy
and had not seen him very often. She recalled him as a thin gangling
youth, with a prominent Adam’s apple and shallow, frightened blue eyes.
And now he was at home again with a disgrace like that. “Oh, the poor
boy!” she thought again, horrified at the spiritual collapse that would
make one’s pride and reserve go down and leave one exposed before the
whole world. “It’s just what I might do if I were a man--just the way I
might have acted. Oh, I’m glad I’m not a man!” she told herself.

Suddenly in the stillness she heard a sharp sound in the hall. It
startled her so that her hands on the knitting-needles jumped together.
“Oh, what is that?” she thought. She listened rigidly a minute, and
heard a creaking on the stairway. With an effort, she wrenched herself
up, and stepping to the door pressed the electric button. As the light
flashed up in the hall, she saw Mr. Bixby’s white face looking down at
her from the stairway.

“Oh, I scared you,” he said confusedly. “Don’t be scared; it’s just me.
I didn’t go to frighten you.”

Julie looked up at him. “_You?_” she cried uncertainly. “Oh, it’s you!”

They stared at each other a moment, and then she turned back into her
sitting-room. “Well,” she said, relieved, “I’m glad it’s you. I _was_
scared. I didn’t know what to think.”

He came down the stairs, still apologizing. “I’m sorry. I didn’t go to
frighten you. I was upstairs all alone--my wife’s gone to the show with
Mis’ Johnson--and I got to wondering where that door went to, an’ then,
just out of curiosity, I hunted round till I found a closet-key that
fitted it. But I’m mighty sorry I give you a start.”

He had come into the little sitting-room now and was leaning over the
back of the red-plush rocker, looking down at her. She had returned to
her knitting under the light. “Oh, it’s all right; it isn’t anything. I
just get scared so easy,” she told him, still with a little tremor in
her voice.

“Yes,” he said, “I know. Some of us do.”

He still lingered, leaning on his arms over the back of the chair and
watching her knit.

“Making a sweater?” he asked.

“Yes, for the Red Cross.” She spread it out for him to see.

“Well, the feller that gets it’ll be lucky,” he said. Still he did
not go; and in a moment he spoke again, feeling his way uncertainly.
“Speaking about being scared--I mean, you said you got scared easy?”

“Yes, I do,” she answered, to help him out as he hesitated. “I’m awful
timid; sudden noises always make me jump.”