That was a strained summer in Hart’s Run, an uneasy, nervous
war-summer, throwing the village people out of all their accustomed
ways, as they gave themselves to the business of war. Speakers were
sent to them for the various “drives,” from Red River and even
occasionally from Washington as well. Judge Dean spoke to them in his
soft slow voice--oratory strangely different and much more impressive
than the flamboyant outbursts of the ordinary campaign-days. “Strictly
speaking,” he said softly, “your country has no business at the present
time but the business of killing Huns; and strictly speaking, _you_
have no business but the business of killing Huns.”

What an amazing business for Hart’s Run! What had Hart’s Run, up to
1914, ever known about Huns? The nervous, high-strung days went by
with Red Cross work, patriotic rallies, the conservation of food, and
the tense reading of headlines. Long troop-trains went through Hart’s
Run by night and by day, and every now and again a little handful of
village men, and men from the surrounding country, left for Camp Lee.

The business of killing Huns--an amazing business indeed for Julie
Rose! What did she know about Huns? She subscribed to the Liberty
Loans, she worked for the Red Cross, she saved food conscientiously,
and she listened to what others read out of the papers; but in truth
the war did not touch her very acutely. She did all her duty, and more.
She felt some of the horror of the war; but for the most part she
looked on as an outsider. So it always was with her. She had always
been an outsider--not quite in touch with the rest of the world. People
were constantly crowding her shy sensitive nature to one side. As a
child she had never been “in it” in the games at school, and now as a
grown person she was not in it with her country in this terrible game.
Perhaps because of this aloofness, which her timid nature had thrust
upon her, she did not now feel much of the intense patriotism that ran
through the country. That great uplifting thrill of close interest and
contact with other human beings that came to many at that time was
denied to Julie. She did all that was required of her; but she was
untouched by any rewarding flame of consecration.

“It certainly is awful,” she said from time to time. But the awfulness
of the war had been going on since 1914, and the first edge of it was
gone. Yet sometimes the horror stuck its head out abruptly in their
very midst. It did for Julie on the day that she read in the _Hart’s
Run News_ of the death of John Webster in France. “One of our Stag
County young men,” the _News_ announced, “whose parents, Mr. and Mrs.
Otley Webster, are prominent citizens of Red River.” Why, yes; Julie
knew the Websters. She had met them once at Henr’etta’s, and Henr’etta
was always talking about Effie Webster--about her clothes, her car, how
stylish she was, and about her set of new china. Henr’etta had told
Julie about that china the last time she was in Red River. And now
Effie Webster’s boy was dead in France. Julie shivered, and thought
what awful deaths men had to die. She was rather accustomed to violent
death in the lumber camps, in the mining-fields west of Hart’s Run,
and on the railroads. Hadn’t her own father been killed by a falling
tree? Julie recalled his death with a quiver--that stretched look of
suffering, which had so widened and whitened his face. She was thinking
of these things a week or so after the supper party, sitting under the
light in her back room, knitting on a sweater, when Aunt Sadie came in
to her from the other side of the house.

“Come on, Julie, let’s go to the picture show this evening,” she
suggested.

“I can’t,” Julie returned. “I’ve got to get on with this Red Cross
sweater.”

“Well,” the other sighed, “I reckon I oughtn’t to tempt you away from
your duty, with our men givin’ their lives over there. Ain’t it awful
about that Mrs. Webster’s boy!”

“Awful,” Julie assented.

“It’s the third one of our Stag County young men to go. That boy from
Whifen that was killed early in the war, an’ that young feller that was
in the Marines, and now Mrs. Webster’s son. They said when they got the
word his mother just fell right over on the floor, an’ was dead for
five hours. He was her only boy, and the baby child; an’ now him dead
’way off there--one of our men dead over in France--ain’t it awful?”

“Yes, awful,” Julie repeated, hurrying nervously on with her knitting.

“Well--and did you hear about the Chapin boy?” Aunt Sadie continued.

“No. What about him? What Chapin boy?” Julie asked, startled.

“Why, you know those Chapins that live out on the Easter Road, ’bout
five miles from town? It’s a little log-house, sits back from the road
in a right pretty yard.”

“Oh, yes, I know. What about the boy?” Julie questioned.

“Well, they had to send him back from camp. They couldn’t do one thing
with him. He just cried all the time.”