The following Sunday after service, Julie was formally presented to Mr.
and Mrs. Bixby.

She had gone to church in an agony of apprehension. Would Brother
Seabrook call on her again to pray? Or did he know now that she was
afraid? And did everybody else know? The thought made her feel like an
outcast, yet she was so terrified that she would have liked to go to
Brother Seabrook before church and beg him not to call upon her. She
pictured herself doing it; she even made up in her mind the words with
which to clothe her request; but in the end she could not bring herself
to do it. Instead, she went late and slipped into a back pew. He did
not call upon her, but all through the service she suffered an agony of
dread, and when it was over, and she rose with the rest to leave, she
felt as though every eye was fixed on her in contempt.

Outside the church she encountered a little group of people who were
being introduced to Mr. and Mrs. Bixby. Mrs. Sam Wicket had taken
upon herself the responsibility of presenting the strangers to the
congregation.

“Miss Rose, make you acquainted with Mis’ Bixby,” she said, catching
Julie by the arm as she came down the steps, and holding her firmly
before the other, as though she might otherwise escape.

“Miss Rose, pleased to meet you,” the newcomer said; and Julie found
herself looking up into the face of Elizabeth Bixby, while their hands
touched for a moment.

Dressed for her first public appearance in Hart’s Run, Mrs. Bixby
was at once more amiable and more overpowering than the cross and
disheveled woman whom Julie had seen on the train. An exotic perfume
new to the village hung about her. Her green silk dress shimmered in
the sun, her feet were squeezed into high-heeled pumps with flashing
buckles, while from her ears big green hoops depended, accentuating the
breadth and bold commonness of her face, and shaking and gleaming as
she turned her head from side to side. She was much taller than Julie,
so that she had to look down at her.

“I recollect seeing you on the train, the day we got here,” she
announced.

“And that’s Mr. Bixby,” Mrs. Wicket added--rather as an afterthought.

Julie turned and looked into Timothy Bixby’s face as their hands came
together for the first time. His was cold from shyness, and Julie knew
that hers must feel the same way. Neither of them spoke.

“You must excuse my husband,” Mrs. Bixby said with elaborate
jocularity. “The cat got his tongue when he was real little, an’ he’s
been dumb ever since.”

The unhappy color suffused Mr. Bixby’s face, and letting go of Julie’s
hand, his glance sought the ground in confusion. Then suddenly he
raised his eyes and gazed straight at her. She saw his spirit,
desperate and impotent, like a caged wild animal, looking out at her.
The sight shook her once more with that familiar suffocating anger.

“Oh, well,” she retorted boldly, “what people say isn’t really
anything. It’s what they are that matters. I’m not much of a hand for
talking myself. Maybe the same cat got my tongue.--Excuse me; I’ve got
to go back and speak to Brother Seabrook a minute,” she added suddenly.

Julie reëntered the church and went hastily along the red-carpeted
aisle, and with every determined spring of her foot she said to
herself, “It’s got to stop--it’s just got to stop right now. Folks have
_got_ to let us alone.”

Quickly and decisively she came straight up to Brother Seabrook and
paused in front of him. He was busy putting some papers together,
and everybody else had left the church. “Brother Seabrook,” she said
clearly, “I just came back to ask you--to _tell_ you--you mustn’t call
on me to pray.”

Brother Seabrook looked down at her in surprise, his brows over his
shoe-button eyes going up protestingly. “Why, my sister, what is this?”
he cried. “Not call on you to pray?”

“No, I can’t do it. I never could. My mother always explained to every
new minister that I couldn’t. But she’s dead now, so I’ve got to tell
you myself.”

Her big gray eyes fringed by dark lashes looked straight up at him.
Her cheeks were slightly flushed. Her breath came quickly, making the
ruffles about her neck stir up and down. She was all of thirty-two, but
Brother Seabrook was nearing fifty, and was a widower. They were alone
in the church.

He took her hand and held it in both of his large palms.

“My sister, my little sister,” he said, “you must pray--all of my flock
must pray. Couldn’t you say one little prayer for me?”