“It ain’t my gown,” the other wept. “It ain’t _just_ my gown! It’s--O
God Almighty! _It’s everything!_”

“I know! I know!” Julie cried poignantly. “You’re sick. I understand.”

“I’m crazy. I’m all in a kind of a daze.” The old woman wept
convulsively. “O God, what’s the matter with me? I can’t seem to find
myself.”

She looked up at Julie, her mouth tremulous and her old eyes filmed
with despairing tears.

“I can’t find myself, I--I b’lieve I’m crazy,” she repeated
desperately. “I can’t fix up no more. I ain’t got no heart left for
nothing.” She turned her head dumbly from side to side. “I know
everything’s dirty: it’s all in a mess. But I can’t fix up no more.”

“You’re tired.”

“Tired! I’m so tired I wish’t I was dead,” the other cried.

“I know; I understand,” Julie’s tender hand still caressed her. “But
I’ve come to help you. I’m your friend. I’ll fix everything up for
you, an’ then you won’t feel so bad. Look at the flowers I brought
you.”

She held the gay, alluring little nosegay out. The old woman took her
clinched hands down from her face, and stared dimly at it. Her cheeks
were smudged with tears, and she swallowed convulsively, like a child
when its storm of grief is past.

“See,” Julie went on, her compassionate voice soothing her. “See,
honey, I got them in market for you this morning. Look how nice an’
fresh they are.”

The flowers with their blue blossoms peeping through the netted
greenery, like faces looking through latticed windows, seemed a
lodestone to draw the old creature’s attention away from her despair.
She put out one trembling finger and touched them uncertainly, and
although she did not speak, she let her gaze linger upon them.

“Where shall I set them?” Julie questioned, now for the first time
daring to raise her eyes and look about the unhappy room. The whole
place was in disorder. Dust lay everywhere; clothes were upon the
floor and tumbled on chairs; the window was dim and smudged with dirt;
a sick canary bird drooped in its cage, and a geranium plant was
withered and dead in the window. The life had gone out of every small
attempt at homemaking. The curtains, which had once been clean and
festive, were soiled and torn now, and the white covers upon the bureau
were crumpled. The spirit in the old woman which should have informed
her dwelling place with life and cheer was as withered at its roots
as the geranium in the window. There was just one thing which caught
Julie’s eye amid all the squalor. That was the photograph of a young
girl on the mantel shelf. Unlike the rest, it was dusted and cared for.
The frame was bright and the glass clean. It appeared to stand as the
last pinnacle of hope, over which the despair that had engulfed the
rest of the room had not as yet surged.

“Where shall I put the flowers?” Julie questioned again, and the
old woman raised her eyes and pointed to the picture. “There,” she
commanded.

Julie stepped across and placed the nosegay before the picture. It was
that of a young girl, dressed in a fashion of some fifteen years ago.

“What a pretty little girl,” she said. “Who is she?”

Old Miss Fogg stared at the picture through dim eyes. “My little baby
child--all I got in the world,” she muttered at length and broke into
fresh tears. “She’s all the kin I got in the world, but she’s married
an’ gone, and I ain’t seen her for ten years,” she wept. “Oh, my baby,
my honey! Why don’t you come see your old Tannie no more? O Sweetness,
I want to see you so bad!”

“You haven’t seen her for ten years!” Julie exclaimed. Instantly she
saw the thin old shoulders stiffen, and felt an unseen veil drawn. Miss
Fogg looked up in quick defiance, a crafty challenge in her eyes.

“Who said she ain’t been to see me for ten years?” she demanded.

“Why you said--” Julie faltered.

“I ain’t said _nothing_!” the other stormed. “Folks tells lies. I don’t
know what’s got into people. They ain’t got no idea about the truth
no more. What business they got telling tales about my little honey,
saying she ain’t coming to see me no more? They don’t know,” she spoke
mysteriously, “but I’m expecting her most any day now. She’ll come to
me soon, my baby’ll come soon to her old Tannie.” Her tone changed, she
looked up at Julie, and spoke with a pathetic dignity, “I’m looking for
a visit from my little niece,” she said. “I wouldn’t be surprised if
she was to come to-day.”