The people were talking disjointedly, crowding in, and one was stooping
down touching her. Their words came in confused ejaculation. “She’s
dead--just as dead as a nit!” “My Lord! what a sight!” “She done it
with that pistol.” “Don’t touch her. Don’t touch her, I say! She’s
dead, all right.” “But she wa’n’t dead when I got here; she give a
kind of a flop or two just as I got to the door.” “Well, she’s dead
now. The poor crazy old soul!” “She’s killed herself all right!” “Don’t
touch her, I say! Don’t! You got to let her lay like she is till the
coroner comes.” “Mind! you’re gettin’ your hands all into it.” “_My
Lord! What a sight!_”

Julie took one look at the figure on the floor, at the old face, at the
gray hair that she had sometimes brushed, at the muslin waist she had
pressed so carefully, all streaked now--and something crashed within
her. She reeled against Tim. “Take me away--downstairs,” she panted.

He supported her down the narrow steps, and back into their own rooms.
She sank on a chair.

“Read her letter,” she commanded.

He took the twist of paper and, unfolding it, puzzled over it for a
time in silence. “It’s mighty hard to read; it’s written so funny;
she’s left out a lot of words, and written some twice over, an’ all
running down on the paper,” he hesitated.

“Read it, read it!” she cried. She was sitting bowed over, her elbows
on her knees, her face hidden in her hands.

He read, picking the words out with difficulty.

“It commences, ‘Dear’--just that: she forgot to put the rest, I reckon.
‘Dear, I can’t stand no more. My niece, my baby--baby,’ (she’s got
that twice over) ‘to see me to-day.’ (She’s left out something here)
‘trouble. She’s in awful trouble. Her husband’s left an’ gone with
another woman. She’s all broke up by it. My baby she cried and cried.’”

He paused.

“Don’t leave out anything: read it all--_all_,” she breathed from
behind her hands.

He went on again: “‘An’ now the law’s lookin’ for him. My poor little
baby child! All I had. I can’t stand up against this trouble--disgrace.
People talk, always peeking and spying at you, an’ talk. I ain’t got no
more to live for now, an’ I don’t want to live--’”

He hesitated.

“All, Tim, _all_!” she cried out again.

“‘Don’t want to live if there’s bad people in the world like what
took my baby’s husband. She was all I had to set my heart on. You
understand. You been good--good to me.’ (She’s got ‘good’ written twice
over, Julie.) ‘I take my pen in hand--these few lines. Don’t let any
one be blamed. Nobody to blame but that woman. You been good to me. I
thank you, an’ so no more at present from your poor old friend, Eliza
Annie Fogg.’”

He dropped the paper, and turned to her. “Julie! Honey!” he cried.
“Julie, _don’t_ take it so hard! She was just a crazy old woman:
anything would have made her do it!”

Julie raised her ghastly face, staring at him. “She was my child,” she
said, “and I’ve killed her. Oh, you don’t know; but she was like my own
child. She was in the dark, an’ sufferin’. I had so much happiness--I
thought it would give her life. Instead--”

“Julie, she was crazy!” he pleaded.

Her eyes, though she still stared at him, were remote, fixed upon an
inward picture.

“Tim,” she said. “It was all over the clean waist I pressed for
her--all over it. I’ve killed her. And--and Elizabeth too, she was
crying.”

“Elizabeth! _Her_ tears--” he broke in violently, but she silenced him.

“No, don’t speak now; don’t. Let me alone. I’ve got to be by myself and
think it all out alone. I’ve got to think.” She rose unsteadily.

She stood looking at him one moment more, dumbly, uncertainly, groping
perhaps to find something for his consolation, but she found nothing,
and in the end she evaded his outstretched arms, murmured blindly,
“I got to be alone--I got to think it all out,” and passed from the
kitchen and through to the dark of the sitting-room, where she shut the
door fast behind her.

He sank down in a chair and sat on all alone in the room, where the
lights were bright and the supper still waited upon the table in
festive expectancy. Every now and then his eyes traveled around the
room with its air of frozen gayety, but always they returned to the
floor, and so he remained, his legs stretched out in front of him, his
hands driven into his pockets, and his head bowed.