He shook his head. “I don’t know.”

Again they were silent, looking into one another’s faces questioningly.
They were suddenly at sea in the wine-dark waters of life, swept from
all their moorings, confused and uncertain, and they looked at each
other in search of some fresh anchorage. The shadows were gathering in
the room now; it was almost dark; and at length he rose and lighted the
gas.

“There! Now what about a little bite to eat?”

It was an inspiration on his part. It brought her back to the reality
of the moment, comforting and restoring her as nothing else could have
done. In the simple preparations for the meal, their familiar happy
life flowed back upon them as though, after all, it was to continue.
They both clutched at it eagerly. It had seemed to be broken and gone;
but now in the laying of the table, the setting forth of the knives
and forks and dishes, here it was again, come back more alive, more
poignant than ever, as though some worker in the ground who thought
his mine exhausted had stumbled unexpectedly upon a vein of metal more
pure than all the rest. It was soul-restoring for them both. He helped
her, and she laughed a little with a shaken tender mirth at his way of
doing things. Together they placed Julie’s best cups upon the table,
the cups that he had given her, that had pink rosebuds flecked all
over them, and which meant more to her and to him than any other cups
could ever mean. The food, the daintily spread table, the knives and
forks, the little cups particularly, seemed all to embody and make real
their companionship, as though what was in their hearts, that vivid
and beautiful essence of their life together, had poured itself forth
materialized before their eyes in these familiar creatures, small and
endearing. But when the meal was all prepared, and the table spread,
Julie and Tim stood, hesitating.

“I can’t go up and get her: I can’t go now,” Julie faltered. He knew
she meant Miss Fogg, for whom the party had been planned.

“Oh, well, maybe she’ll come down of herself,” he answered.

She brightened. “That’s so. Maybe she will. Let’s wait a little bit and
see.”

They stood for a time with their hands on the backs of their chairs,
and surveyed the dainty repast. But nothing happened.

“No, she won’t come by herself,” Julie said forlornly, at length. “I
know she won’t.”

He caught the falling note in her voice, and his love hurried toward
her with words of protective tenderness.

“Well, she’d come quick enough if she could just see how nice you’ve
got everything fixed for her,” he cried. “Just give a person one look
at this table, an’ I’ll bet you couldn’t drive ’em away from it with a
stick.”

She looked up quickly and gratefully, a little laugh trembling on
her lips, and about to reply, when a sudden faint noise at the door
arrested her. Her nerves were on edge, and any noise now was startling.

“Oh, Tim!” she breathed faintly, and wavered toward him. He was beside
her in a moment, his arm fast about her. So they faced the door and
waited. The sound came again, and with a little catch of breath Julie
whispered, “Look!” and pointed. A bit of white paper was creeping in
under the door-sill. They stood and watched it with fixed eyes. It came
in slowly, uncertainly, making a little scratching sound as it came.
A long black hairpin was being used to push it in: they saw the sharp
wire line of it dark against the white of the paper. Slowly, thoroughly
it came creeping under the door. Then with a final poke the hairpin was
withdrawn, and the paper lay there white upon the floor. A faint pause
followed, and then footsteps creaked away down the hall.

Tim stooped quickly and snatched the paper up. It was a flimsy half
sheet, and was folded into a note.

“What is it?” Julie faltered. Some words were scrawled on the outside.
It took a little time to puzzle them out. “Don’t read till I say when,”
they deciphered finally.

“Oh, it’s Miss Fogg!” Julie cried with an unsteady laugh of relief.
“But what does she mean? How are we to know when she says ‘when’?”

As the question died on her lips she was answered by the sudden
explosion of a pistol-shot. An instant of caught silence followed, and
then doors were banged open and people began to run through the house.
“_Miss Fogg!_” Julie screamed. She and Tim ran also, down the hall and
up the stairs. When they reached the place, the room was crowded full
of people. The locked drawer in her bureau was pulled open, and old
Miss Fogg lay on the floor, a pistol beside her, slipped out of her
dead hand.