Julie quickened her pace nervously, walking with averted eyes.

“Widowers, now,” Mrs. Anderson pursued, “They’re broke to double
harness already--they ain’t so hard to drive as a colt.”

She suddenly collapsed in mirth. “’Magine you drivin’ a colt husband,
Julie!” she giggled. “Don’t walk so fast, dearie; you put me all out er
breath. Well, anyhow, I think widowers are real nice. I ain’t got one
thing against ’em. I just believe I’ll make the match between you and
Brother Seabrook. You like his looks all right, don’t you?”

Julie had fallen into a frozen silence. But her companion was
inexorable.

“Don’t you, dearie? Don’t you like his looks?” she persisted.

“I--I haven’t thought anything about how he looks,” Julie stumbled,
unhappily.

“I b’lieve he’d like you, too,” Mrs. Anderson went on. “Big men like
him are mighty apt to take to little scary women like you. An’ you’d
make him a real good wife, Julie. I will say for you, you’re ’bout the
best cook in town. You get that from your mother; she always set the
prettiest table--you recollect, Julie?”

Again Julie was silent. The remembrance of her mother informed all her
life, but it was not possible for her to speak of it to Mrs. Anderson.

“Well, of course Brother Seabrook would rather have you keepin’ his
house an’ raisin’ his children for him than that soured-faced old
aunt he’s got now. An’ you wouldn’t give him a speck er trouble; you
wouldn’t kick over the traces, would you? ’Magine you kickin’ over
anything, Julie!” Again Mrs. Anderson was convulsed with mirth, but
this time she was interrupted. “Oh, mercy! Them old teeth!” she cried,
clapping her hand to her mouth. “My! But they certainly did take a
spiteful nip at my tongue that time. Yes, sir,” she continued, “I’m
certainly goin’ to make that match if I live. I’ll commence right this
evenin’ by bringin’ you to his notice. I’ll tip him off to call on you
to pray.”

“Oh, no!” Julie burst out. “Oh, please, Mrs. Anderson--please don’t do
anything like that! You know I never do lead in prayer. I can’t do it.
I never could. Brother Mead knew I couldn’t--and old Brother Johnston,
too--mother told them privately, and they never called on me. I’ll
do anything to help the church--anything I can. But I can’t lead in
prayer, Mrs. Anderson; you know I can’t! I never could.”

“Well, now, it’s time you learned. You been a member in the Methodist
church too long not to be able to pray, Julie. Why, what’ll folks think
if it gets about you can’t pray? Why, prayer’s just the very foundation
of the church. What’s the matter?”

Julie had stopped. “I’m not going to prayer-meeting this evening,” she
faltered. “I’ve got to go back. I--I don’t feel so very well.”

Mrs. Anderson laid firm hands upon her. “That’s perfect nonsense,”
she cried. “You got to go. Why, this is Brother Seabrook’s first
prayer-meeting. Everybody’ll think it’s awful funny if you ain’t there
to welcome him.”

“I’m not going,” Julie protested, trying to twist herself free of the
large hand on her wrist. “I--I--Oh, you know I can’t lead in prayer!
If he calls on me, I’ll not be able to say one word--an’ everybody’ll
laugh.”

“Julie! You a Methodist an’ can’t pray?”

“I’ll die if he calls on me,” Julie cried, on the verge of tears.

“Oh, no, you won’t. Folks don’t die that easy. What’s the matter with
you, anyhow, Julie?” Mrs. Anderson interrupted herself suddenly. “Why,
now I come to recollect, I heard you pray once, an’ it was just grand.
It was the time we had that big revivalist here--remember? Why, you was
just wonderful that night.”

“I know--I remember,” Julie returned hurriedly. “But that was
different. I was just carried away that night. Something got hold of
me--it sort of swept me out of myself. I--I wasn’t there that night. It
was his preaching, I reckon. It seemed to set me free.” She broke off,
a sudden bravery brought momentarily to her face by the remembrance.
“But--but that was different,” she hurried on. “I couldn’t do it now.
Please let me go.”

But the other was inexorable.

“You’ve prayed once an’ you can pray again,” she persisted. “An’ it
would be awful for you not to be there for Brother Seabrook’s first
prayer-meeting. If you struggle now, Julie, it’ll look like I was
draggin’ you to church, an’ what’ll folks think of that?”