“I’ve got to stop her! She shan’t smoke here in my shop. What would
mother say?” she thought breathlessly to herself, trying to control
the tremor that ran through her hands, so that she might set even
stitches in her work. “I’ve _got_ to stop her! It’s my shop. She’s got
no business to smoke here. Why, I wouldn’t let my best friend smoke
here!” But though she protested these things to herself, Julie could
not whip her courage up to bringing them forth in spoken words, and
Elizabeth continued to puff out long blue columns of smoke, watching
them with satisfaction, while with an affected gesture, she flecked
her ashes here and there over the clean floor. She was in truth a
little disappointed that her cigarette had provoked no comment. She
had expected Julie at least to look startled, and was prepared to
defend herself with condescending patronage. Julie’s silence was
disconcerting, for Elizabeth possessed none of the spiritual antennæ
with which to sense another’s atmosphere if unexpressed by word or
gesture. She strolled back to the mirror, and under cover of patting
her hair into place peeped at Julie’s reflection to see if she was
being watched from behind her back. But Julie, whose weakness it was
to have antennæ far too sensitive to another’s atmosphere, knew what
Elizabeth expected, and kept her eyes resolutely upon the threading of
her needle. It was a little defiant clash between the two women, of
which Julie was fully aware, but which Elizabeth realized only from her
own standpoint.

At this moment Aunt Sadie Johnson bustled into the shop, and having
none of Julie’s delicate hesitancy, exploded the hidden situation with
a startled exclamation.

“Julie,” she began, “I just ran in to see if that white ruchin’ I
got you to order for me--Well, for the _mercy sake_!” she broke off,
suddenly catching sight of Elizabeth. “Well, my lands!” she continued,
staring frankly, and unafraid of drawing upon herself the full fire of
the cigarette.

It was some such violent attention as this that Elizabeth had hoped for.

“What’s the matter?” she inquired in her most superior manner. “Oh,”
feigning surprise, “my cigarette? Why surely, Mrs. Johnson, I’m not the
first woman you’ve seen smoke.”

“That you ain’t!” Aunt Sadie retorted promptly. “I’ve seen a plenty of
’em do it.”

Elizabeth was somewhat dashed, but she rallied as best she could.
“Well,” she said, “I’m glad Hart’s Run ain’t such a back number as not
to know that all the smart women smoke nowadays.”

“Smart?” Aunt Sadie cried, and went off into billows of large mirth.
“Well, you may call ’em smart, but I dunno’s they look so stylish to
me. There’s old Betty Willets from off Rocky Ridge. She drives her old
wagon an’ broken-down horse into town, to collect the swill from folks’
backyards to take up to her hog. She’s one of our smart smokers. An’
they all smoke up Spitzer’s Holler--an’ chew too--they’re ’bout the
lowest-down lot of folks we have ’round here. Oh, no, you ain’t the
first I’ve seen smoke, not by a long sight. But it does look like a
pity for a right young woman like you to be smoking and chewin’--it’ll
just ruin your teeth.”

“Chew?” cried Elizabeth wildly. “You don’t think I chew tobacco, do
you?”

“Oh, don’t tell me!” Aunt Sadie returned. “I never saw a woman yet who
smoked, that she didn’t chew on the sly an’ dip snuff, too. Oh, I’d be
the last person in the world to say there was any real harm in it,” she
went on tolerantly, “with so many of our old folks still doin’ it; it’s
only that I always did think chewin’ an’ spittin’--”

“I don’t chew!” Elizabeth cried furiously. “Of course I don’t! Who ever
heard of such a thing? Well, I’m going,” she announced, flouncing to
the door. “An’ I’ll say this, Miss Rose,” she added, “I don’t think
_you’re_ any too polite either to strangers. In all the time I’ve been
here, you’ve hardly said two words, and you haven’t so much as asked me
to take a chair.” Angry tears leaped in her eyes, and she flung herself
away out of the shop and up her own stairs.

“Well, the poor thing,” Mrs. Johnson said. “I made her mad all right! I
reckon it was a sin, but I just couldn’t stand her airing ’round here
with that cigarette, an’ showings off to us moss-backs. What’d you let
her smoke in here for, Julie? You know your mother wouldn’t have liked
it.”

“I didn’t know how to stop her,” Julie confessed helplessly.

“Well, I stopped her all right!” Aunt Sadie returned, shaken again by
large laughter. “But ain’t the world funny, Julie? Here we’ve all come
to look down on smokin’, and feel sort of ashamed of the old women that
still do it, when along comes all the young smart Alecks, an’ says it’s
the thing to do, an’ if you don’t do it, it just shows you’re right
from the backwoods. Now ain’t that funny? If you just live long enough
in the world, you’ll see everything turned upside down! But I feel kind
of sorry for poor Mis’ Bixby,” she added tolerantly.