She brushed a dark strand of hair back from her brow, then she dropped
her hand to his and he held it fast, staring up into her face, whose
look of wider apprehension seemed reflected on his own as well.

“It was like I’d been stretched,” she went on slowly, feeling for
words, “stretched into knowing bigger things, an’ shoved deep down
where you ain’t yourself alone, but where all the rest of the folks is,
too, all kind of bound together--all brothers an’ sisters--an’ where
nobody lives to theirselves, or dies to theirselves. An’--an’ _now_ I
got to stand straight with the world.”

He nodded, “I know. I understand.” It was the old familiar phrase which
had linked them so close together. They were silent for a long moment,
drinking understanding and courage from one another’s eyes in the
communion of their spirits.

He spoke at last. “I’ll go ’round to the police this mornin’ an’ turn
myself in. Or maybe it would be better to go straight to Camp Lee.”

Her clasp upon his hand tightened, but she spoke steadily. “I’ll go
home to Hart’s Run.”

He started at that. “Oh, no, honey,” he protested, “you can’t do that.
You can’t go back there now. You know how it is--how they’ll treat you.
You can’t live there now.”

“I can live anywhere now,” she answered. “I’ve found myself now. All
my life I’ve been scared of folks. You know how it was. But not now:
I’m free of ’em all at last. I got to go back there. It’s my home. It’s
where I belong, where I can be square with the world. Oh,” she cried,
“what does it matter to me where _I_ live, when you--when you--Oh,
honey,” she broke down, “what will they do to you?”

“Never mind! Never mind! It’s all right now. I can stand it now,” he
consoled her. “But how will you live at Hart’s Run? Will they--will
folks buy from you now?”

She laughed a little at that. “Oh, they’ll buy, all right,” she
reassured him. “Maybe they’ll put me out of the church; but I trim hats
too well, an’ know too much about fixing clothes for ’em not to come to
the store.”

They began after that to consider their plans, bravely and calmly
making arrangements for a speedy departure. It was still very early,
and together they fell to work packing up all their small belongings.
There was not much to pack: only a few clothes, the rosebud cups, and
some extra housekeeping utensils that they had had to buy. These all
went easily into her suit-case and his trunk, which she was to take
with her. When the packing was finished he went out, arranged to have
the trunk sent for later, saw their landlord and settled for the rent,
explaining his sudden departure by saying he had to answer his draft
call.

When he returned, breakfast was ready. Julie had even made waffles for
their last meal together.

He sat down and forced himself to eat to please her, but she could
scarcely touch anything.

“You better try to eat a little bit,” he urged. “There now, have some
of this plateful of waffles. I can’t eat ’em all, honey.”

She looked at him a moment, her face quivering. “I--I got something in
my throat--seems like I can’t swaller past it,” she got out, snatching
at that wisp of whimsicality to cover the nakedness of their tragedy.

But on the whole the breakfast was a brave, almost a gay, meal. They
were both setting forth upon desperate paths of life and, knowing
this, they were keyed up and excited by the adventure of it, and in
themselves they knew as well a steady self-confidence that had never
been theirs before.

They had agreed that for Tim to go to Camp Lee and give himself up
there would be the best plan; but after all, they were too late. As
they finished breakfast, they were startled by a sudden loud bang upon
their door. Their hands flew together and clutched fast for one moment
across the table, then he rose and threw the door wide.

Two men in plain clothes burst in.

“Here, what’s your name?” the foremost demanded, a big swaggering man
with the face of a bully.

“Timothy Bixby,” Tim answered steadily.

“Oh, it is, is it?” the man cried, a trifle taken aback. “This is your
mornin’ for tellin’ the truth, ain’t it? Well, Mr. Timothy Bixby, I
arrest you in the name of the law. See this?” He turned back his coat
lapel, and displayed a sheriff’s badge. “We’re the dog catchers, an’
we’ve come for you--you damned yeller cur!”