When Julie reached the station to take her train for Red River, she
found herself the only passenger from Hart’s Run. A couple of traveling
men, strangers to her, were walking up and down the platform in the
fresh morning air, pulling at their cigars, evidently content and
well-breakfasted by the hospitality of the Monroe House in the village.
The station master was also there. He was Edward Black, the same bully
who had torn Julie’s doll to pieces so long ago. He had grown into a
stout and flabby man, with small eyes set in so large an expanse of
face that one inevitably thought of his cheeks as jowls. He greeted her
with “Mornin’, Julie, goin’ away on Number Twelve?”

“Just to Red River for the day,” she answered. “I hope Twelve’s on
time.”

“Hope’s cheap,” Edward retorted. It was his custom not to give away
information in regard to the trains too easily. He liked to keep the
superior knowledge that his post gave him for the gratification of his
own vanity.

Julie would have liked to slip away unnoticed into the station, but she
also wanted very much to know whether or not the train was on time, for
if it were hours late--as it sometimes was--she would not be able to
do much shopping in Red River, and so would put off her trip until the
next day. Therefore she mustered courage to put the question direct,
although she had a painfully acute inner remembrance of how very
forlorn her face had looked in the mirror that morning.

“Is--is Twelve on time?” she asked.

“Is--is Twelve on time,” he mimicked, and turned to wink at the near-by
drummers. But it was a wink misplaced. One of the men, who had been
teetering gayly up and down on the precarious footing of the iron
track, in sheer exuberance of health and the fine morning, turned a
sudden flaming red, and removed the cigar abruptly from his mouth.

“The lady’s asked you if the train’s on time. You’re here to tell her!”
he blazed.

In sulky surprise, Edward Black attempted to turn away as though called
by important business elsewhere, but the drummer came a stride nearer,
and curled his fists.

“Tell her!” he commanded.

“Yes, it’s on time,” Edward answered and made a sullen escape.

The drummer turned to Julie, and swept off his hat. “Lady, your train’s
on time,” he announced.

“Oh--oh, thank you!” Julie faltered, and retreated into the station in
an agony of embarrassment.

As she fled, she heard the drummer comment to his friend, “Oh, Lord,
how I do hate that kind of a fat bully! I hope to heavens if I ever get
to France all the Germans’ll look just like him. If they do, I’ll not
have any trouble at all stickin’ bayonets into ’em.”

Julie knew that the words were perfectly audible to Edward Black and
that he would not fail to pay her back for them. She still had her
ticket to buy, and when he opened the ticket window she approached in
apprehension. They were alone in the station.

“Say, Julie, I got a joke on you,” he jeered. “Say, I know how you go
to prayer meetin’.”

The color rushed into Julie’s face.

“Say,” he pursued, watching her from under the drooped lids of his pig
eyes, “What was you doin’ sittin’ out on the church steps last night,
when everybody else was inside?”

So Edward Black, of all people, had seen her!

“Nothing--it wasn’t anything,” she stumbled, knowing that her voice
sounded frightened, and that her cheeks were blazing.

“Oh, yes, it was nothin’! Nothin’ be dogged! Folks don’t turn red like
that over nothin’. Well, I’m goin’ to tell people how Julie Rose goes
to prayer-meeting!”

But here Number Twelve whistled down the line--a clear burst of sound,
cutting joyously through the air. Edward Black had to supply Julie with
her ticket, and so she was delivered.

It was on her way back from Red River that Julie first saw Timothy
Bixby.

The shopping trips to Red River were always occasions of discomfort to
Julie. It was unnerving to her to be shaken out of her accustomed rut
of Hart’s Run. Out in the unfamiliar streets of the larger town, she
always felt strange and dreadfully conspicuous. Henr’etta Crossman, who
had been Henr’etta Wilkinson, Julie’s schoolmate in Hart’s Run, and
with whom Julie generally took dinner when she came to Red River, was
apt to call jovial attention to Julie’s unhappy self-consciousness.
“Come right in to its momma,” she would greet Julie, enfolding her
against her large bosom. “Nothing didn’t bite you comin’ up street, did
it!”