“Tell me, my honey,” he said now.

“Well, our happiness, Tim--it’s so--so alive, that it seems like it was
a real thing running through us, like the way sap runs up the trees
in spring. Oh, honey, ’til you came I was as dead as a winter branch,
an’ now it seems like I couldn’t hold all the happiness, all the life
that’s mine. I got to pour it out for other folks.”

“What’s folks ever done for you, or for me, that you got to please ’em
now?” he said unexpectedly.

She was startled, frightened by his quotation of her own words. “Oh, I
don’t feel that way now,” she cried. “I don’t feel it now that we got
each other, do you? Do you, Tim?” she questioned anxiously, trying to
read his face in the dusk.

“No, I don’t now--now that we’re free,” he answered. “I know
something,” he announced suddenly.

“What? What do you know?”

“Oh, honey! It wa’n’t really the other folks kep’ us down. It was our
own selves, our scary selves that we couldn’t break free of.”

She stared out into the wide dusk in amazement. “That’s the truth,” she
said at length, with deep conviction. “It’s just the truth. Nobody
to blame but our own little selves,” she repeated. “Nobody to blame,
not--Why, Tim, not even Elizabeth!”

“No, not even her,” he nodded back.

They were neither of them bitter people; and with this revelation all
their resentment towards the rest of the world melted away, leaving
their hearts clean-swept and trembling with reverence toward the great
happiness and emancipation that was theirs.

“Oh, Tim, I _got_ to try an’ help people,” she whispered, presently.
“I’m so happy I got to pour some of it out for somebody. That’s why I
got to try an’ help that poor old Miss Fogg.”

“Who’s Miss Fogg?” he questioned.

“She’s that poor thing lives up on the third floor all to herself,” she
told him. “Sometimes she shuts herself in for days and days and won’t
see a soul, Mrs. Watkins was telling me. She’s awful to look at, just
awful. She’s--she’s--oh, Tim, she scares me! She’s what _I_ might have
grown into if you hadn’t come. I’ve got to help her! It seems like I
owe it to our happiness to try an’ make her happy, to pour life back
into her! Oh, honey, you don’t care if I take some of our happiness
and give it away, do you?” she cried suddenly, twisting off whimsically.

“Take all you want of it.” He made a gay, large gesture of bestowal.
“There’ll always be a plenty to go round.”

They broke into happy laughter together in the dusk.

“Come on,” he proposed, jumping up. “Let’s go get us some ice cream.”

So hand in hand, laughing softly together, they wandered away along the
summer street.

There was just one incident that momentarily disturbed for Julie the
sheer felicity of that evening. As they approached Broad Street they
realized that the lifeless air, which was redolent of tobacco from the
factories farther down-town, and permeated as well with the smell of
the hot pavement, of fruit stands and grocery shops, or enlivened with
occasional whiffs of perfumery from a passing woman, was being lifted
and woven into rhythm by a band. At the sound children broke their
play and began to run, and grown people also stepped off their porches
and hastened toward the music. Julie and Tim ran with the rest of the
crowd, reaching the corner just as a detachment of marching men swung
by in rippling khaki lines. The crackle of clapping hands from the
small crowd which had assembled followed the strains of the band and
the stamp of the men’s feet, and, as the flag came swaying past, the
people cheered and cheered. Tim did not applaud. He stood very drawn
and still, his eyes fixed upon the marching men; and suddenly, as the
cheers broke out for the flag, he gripped Julie’s hand so violently
that a ring her mother had given her on her eighteenth birthday cut
sharply into her finger. She did not let herself wince, but she fixed
her eyes upon his face. Once she twitched his hand, but he did not stir
or turn from the soldiers. The detachment passed, the crowd began to
disperse, and the band grew faint in the distance, but still he stood
upon the curb, staring fixedly down the street. Julie gave his hand
another little frightened pull, but he only tightened his grip so that
the ring bit deeper into her flesh.

“Oh, _Tim_!” she gasped involuntarily at the pain. “Oh, honey!”

He started then and looked down at her as though coming back from far
away. “My honey,” he muttered absently.