This announcement served as an unexpected reprieve.

“Oh, you going to Red River?” “You goin’ there in the morning?” Mrs.
Wicket and Miss Mary exclaimed together, deflected from their other
lines of thought.

“Yes, to do some shopping,” Julie nodded. And now she relaxed a little
inside herself, aware that the bait of Red River, which was the county
town and a shopping centre, would distract the others for at least a
little while.

“Well, then, I certainly would be obliged if you’d do a little errand
for me,” Mrs. Wicket said.

“An’ I’ll get you to attend to a little business of mine, too,” Miss
Mary added.

“I’ll be real glad to do it,” Julie said, eagerly.

Mrs. Wicket and Miss Mary proceeded at once to give her minute
directions for the carrying out of their desires, and Julie listened,
assenting and suggesting with the nervous ingratiation of a little dog,
which, having escaped a whipping, hopes to reinstate itself once more
in society.

Having laid their shopping burdens on Julie’s shoulders, the visitors
rose at last to go.

“Now, Julie,” Miss Mary charged, “don’t you go and let that smart
clerk in at Randal’s persuade you into buying any of that cheap piece
of goods. It ain’t the shade I want, and if they ain’t got anything
better, I’ll have to send off for it myself.”

“And remember to see Mr. Winter himself in at Winter and White’s,” Mrs.
Wicket admonished her.

They were outside in the garden now, starting down the little pathway.
Julie called a good-bye, and shut her door hastily. A window was open,
however, and halfway down the path she heard Mrs. Wicket exclaim, “Why,
there now! We never did find out how Julie knew Brother Seabrook called
on her.”

“It’s awful, her being afraid to pray,” Miss Mary rejoined. “I ought to
go back an’ speak to her about it.”

Here Julie snapped out the light.

“There!” she heard old Mrs. Stover announce. “She’s goin’ to bed, like
I told her to!”

“Well, it certainly was mighty funny, but I’ll find out all about it
to-morrow,” Mrs. Wicket said, as their heels clicked away down the
cement walk; and Julie knew that her having sat upon the church steps
would yet have to be faced and explained.

“Oh, I _am_ such an idiot!” she broke out. And now the nervous tears
rushed forth, and she went about her preparations for bed, shaking
convulsively, wiping them away, and raging at herself. “You idiot!
You idiot!” she stormed. Even after the light was out and she was
stretched in bed, the devils of self-hatred continued to tear through
her. She tossed unhappily from one side to the other, going over and
over the whole miserable evening. Why had she run away? Why hadn’t she
stayed and faced it out? Oh, but she couldn’t pray--she just couldn’t!
Well then, if she had to go, why hadn’t she come straight home, instead
of lingering there on the steps? Of course that was a strange thing to
do. Of course people would think it funny if they knew. And they would
know. Mrs. Wicket would be sure to find it out, and sure to tell. Julie
writhed all through her thin body.

“Oh, you little fool!” she gasped. “What business is it of Mrs.
Wicket’s what you do? Why can’t you stand up to her and make her mind
her own affairs! Everybody comes an’ bosses you. Mrs. Anderson gave the
little bird to the cat, and Mrs. Wicket and Miss Mary poking into all
you do, an’ you takin’ everything from ’em just because you’re scared
to look ’em in the face. Oh, you fool--you fool!--But I mustn’t go on
saying ‘fool’!” she wept.

Her shyness, her reserve, and morbid self-consciousness wrapped
themselves about her, as intangible as spider webs, but as difficult
to break as forged iron. As the night wore on, her having sat upon the
church steps assumed an enormity out of all proportion to the fact. She
knew that this was an obsession, but all alone in the depths of her
self-distrust and sleeplessness, she could not break free from it.

“Oh, what a fool I am to take things so hard!” she panted. “Now
everybody’ll know I’m afraid to pray in public. There won’t be one
person that goes to the Methodist church that won’t know it. Oh, you
silly idiot! Oh, how I hate you!” In a culminating burst of rage, she
turned over and set her teeth violently into her thin arm.