“_Mother!_ I’ve come home, I’ve come home,” she whispered breathlessly.

The side gate to her garden was broken and hanging upon one hinge. A
cow had squeezed its way through, defiling the little cement walk, and
trampling over and ravishing her flower beds, so that there were only
a few broken chrysanthemums left. The house was completely deserted.
Evidently Aunt Sadie was still away with her daughter.

Julie went up the walk and up the steps and, taking the key from her
bag, unlocked the door and threw it open. The cold musty smell of the
closed house rushed out to meet her, but she entered unhesitatingly.
In the kitchen she set down her bag and the little kitten, and went
about opening the windows and throwing shutters wide so that the sun
and fresh air flooded in. As she looked out from the front window of
her shop, she saw a woman walking down the middle of the street with a
white mask over her mouth. Julie stared at her for a moment. “So the
flu’s reached Hart’s Run,” she thought, and wondered how bad it was.

She had not had any breakfast, and she went out and bought some
supplies at the grocery. A new clerk was there who did not know her.

“Where’s Picket Forster?” she asked.

“Over in France,” the new clerk returned briefly.

Julie went back with her purchases and got herself some breakfast, and
was feeding the famished kitten, when the back door darkened and Mrs.
Dolly Anderson’s large figure towered above her.

“_Well_,” she cried, her eyes snapping, “I never b’lieved ’em when they
said you was back.”

“Yes, I’m back,” Julie returned simply.

The other continued to stand and stare. “Where you been all this time?”
she demanded at length.

“In Richmond,” Julie answered.

“In Richmond? Well, there’s been a heap of talk goin’ the rounds about
you, Julie.”

“I suppose there has,” Julie assented. She sat down and, taking the
kitten which was fed and comforted now, upon her knee, began to stroke
it softly. “Won’t you sit down?” she said politely.

“No, I’ll not sit down,” Mrs. Anderson returned heavily, and remained
upon her feet.

“Julie,” she said at length, “did you--did you--” she hesitated.

“Did I go off with Mr. Bixby, you mean,” Julie answered steadily. “Yes,
I did. We’ve been together in Richmond for the last two months.”

The other woman’s mouth dropped open. “An’ you _dare_ to come back here
to Hart’s Run an’ tell a tale like that?” she cried furiously.

“I don’t dare not to. I want folks to know the truth.”

“You _want_ ’em to know?”

“Yes, I want to stand straight with the world.”

“You _want_ ’em to know?” the other reiterated violently. “Well, upon
my soul! I don’t believe you’ve got one shred of decency left.”

She glared at Julie, who made no retort but went on gently stroking the
kitten, which was curled on her knee, comforted now, and blowing an
occasional silver bubble as it purred.

“_Quit_ foolin’ with that nasty little cat, an’ listen to me!” Mrs.
Anderson stormed. “What I want to know is how you ever come to do such
a thing--raised like you’ve been?”

Julie looked at her out of still eyes. How had she come to do it? How
could she ever explain to Mrs. Anderson how it had happened? How could
she explain the long repression of soul that had led her and Timothy
Bixby to blow the lid off so violently at last? There were too many
fine shades of meaning in it for her ever to make the other understand.
In truth, she could hardly understand it herself. What had happened was
down so deep in the elemental things of life that she could not put it
into words.

“I don’t think I could possibly tell you why we did it,” she answered
at length. “We cared for each other, but--but we parted as soon as we
saw it was wrong--that what we did was hurting other folks.”

“You parted as soon as you knew it was wrong? You mean to say you
didn’t know right from the first that it was wrong to go off with
another woman’s husband--an’ him a draft dodger, too? Oh, you needn’t
come back to Hart’s Run an’ tell a tale like _that_, an’ expect decent
folks to go right along an’ treat you like nothing had happened. They
won’t do it, I tell you!”