“Yes, I know. And I was thinking how it was with that boy.”

“What boy?” she asked.

“The feller they had to send back from camp. Chapin, I think was the
name. You heard about him?”

He waited, looking down at her.

Suddenly Julie comprehended a strained anxiety in his tone, and her
heart began to beat quickly.

“Yes, I heard,” she said, and kept her eyes down on her knitting now,
not to look too closely at him.

“They said he just cried”--he swallowed nervously--“all the time in
camp. They said they couldn’t do a thing with him.”

“I know; I heard.” Julie knit faster.

“They said everybody’d laugh at him from now on,” he continued.

Julie raised her eyes and looked straight up at him. “_I_ never will,”
she promised.

He drew a free breath. He seemed to have been waiting for her to say
this. “I didn’t b’lieve you would,” he said.

“I never will,” she answered faithfully again, as though making a
solemn compact with him.

She saw his hands that clutched the back of the chair tremble slightly,
and a faint hot moisture broke out upon his forehead. Then he stooped
closer to her, daring all.

“_She_ said--my wife said--that was just what I’d do in camp.”

“You wouldn’t,” she cried sharply. “You wouldn’t! I know you wouldn’t.”

“But--but I might,” he faltered, moistening his lips. “It’s--it’s just
what I might do.”

“You would _not_!” Julie repeated violently, clutching her knitting so
tight that one of the bone needles snapped in two.

“She said I would,” he persisted. “And then she went off to the show. I
was all alone. I got to studyin’ about it. I thought--I thought--”

“I know,” she interjected quickly. “I know, I understand how it is.”

He moistened his lips once more, and tried again. “And--and I thought
maybe she was right,” he got out at last.

“She is not right. She isn’t!”

“And everybody’s laughin’ at the Chapin boy--”

“I’ll never laugh at him.”

“An’ I thought--” He swallowed again. “I thought, ‘Maybe it’ll be _you_
they’ll all be laughin’ at next week.’” He paused a moment. “And--and
now you know it all,” he ended.

“I understand.” Julie’s eyes were suddenly full of tears, so that his
strained face, gazing hungrily down at her, was blurred through them.
“I know. I was sitting here thinking that, too. I was thinking, if I
was a man maybe that was just what I’d do. Maybe I wouldn’t stand up
against things any better than that Chapin boy.”

“You? You thought that?”

“Yes,” she nodded back at him.

“Then you know,” he said, with a breath of relief. “I didn’t want any
one to laugh at him,” he went on. “Don’t laugh,” he pleaded, as though
now he were defending the Chapin boy to that cold outside world that
had laughed. “Maybe he just couldn’t help it, the poor feller! Life’s
mighty big for some folks--too big--bigger than a lot of us knows how
to stand up against. You don’t know how hard he tried; folks don’t know
how hard a person tries; but _you_ understand, Miss Rose?” He suddenly
broke off, his eyes coming back to her face. “You understand, Miss
Julie?”

“Yes, I understand,” she answered faithfully. “An’ I know about life
being so big.”

“It’s too big for some folks,” he said. “Well, I must go.” He drew
himself erect, and started toward the door; then he turned back. “Miss
Rose--Miss Julie,” he said, “I want to tell you--I didn’t tell you the
truth--I don’t have to tell you anything but what’s the truth. I opened
that door and found you on purpose. Of course I knew where it went.
I was sitting there all alone after what she said. And then someway I
_had_ to see if you were laughin’ like all the rest. Now you know--I
don’t have to tell you anything but what’s the truth.” He went then.
And presently Julie heard the door at the top of the steps shut and
locked, and the key withdrawn from the inside.