“Well, I hope in my heart she has got a niece,” Mrs. Watkins returned.

“She ought to be here,” Julie persisted. “She ought to come to Miss
Fogg, in case I have to leave.”

“Why, you thinkin’ of goin’ away?”

“No--Oh, no. Not really,” Julie evaded hastily, with that little
breathless catch in her voice which was characteristic of her under any
stress. “No. But I might.”

“Well, it would be a sad day for everybody in this house if you was
to leave,” Mrs. Watkins said heartily. “You’ve got something about you
most people ain’t got. You’re so--so good.”

Julie looked up, her eyes wide and horrified.

“Oh--Oh, no! I’m not. Don’t say that,” she faltered blindly.

It was after her talk with Mrs. Watkins that Julie made a fresh attempt
to get Miss Fogg to write to her niece. The old woman would never give
her either the niece’s name or her address. That and the locked drawer
in her bureau were the only things over which she evinced the secretive
suspicion toward Julie that she showed toward every one else. When
Julie tried again that afternoon to persuade her, she firmed her lips
obstinately.

“I’ll write if I want, an’ I’ll not if I don’t,” she announced.

“Look,” Julie coaxed. “See, I’ve brought you in ink and paper and
everything. See what nice paper this is.”

Miss Fogg took the paper and inspected it critically. “That’s right
nice,” she admitted. “I wouldn’t write to her on any but the best
paper; she thinks a heap of having things stylish.”

Julie drew up a table and spread the writing materials invitingly upon
it.

“There now, just write her a few lines,” she begged.

The old woman looked at all the preparation dimly, but presently she
really did pick up the pen, and squaring herself at the table made a
few trembling strokes. “My baby child,” she scrawled, the line running
slantingly down the paper. “My little baby,” she attempted again and
then, staring at the words, she broke down in tears. “I can’t do it,”
she wept. “I can’t. I can’t get beyond ‘My baby child.’ I just think of
her like that. She don’t seem to me like a grown person, an’ it’s all I
can think to say.”

“That’s plenty: that’s all she’ll need,” Julie comforted her. “I’ll
write her a letter and tell her all about everything, and put in what
you’ve written.”

“Well,” the old woman consented shakingly, “well, tell her--Oh, tell
her please to come! Tell her not to be mad at me.” And then all at once
the secret of the old woman’s heart burst forth. “She’s mad at me about
something. She won’t come. I’ve written and written--of course I have.
But she don’t even answer. She don’t send a word. She’s gone back on
me.” She looked up at Julie, her old face all distorted and twitching.
“Don’t tell--don’t you tell any of these onery folks--but she’s gone
back on me. She don’t ever write nor nothin’. Not even Christmas time.
I ain’t told on her. I’ve kep’ it all to myself, here in my breast--but
it’s erbout killed me. All I’ve got in the world! All--” The words fell
into sobs.

“But she _will_ come now!” Julie promised with poignant sympathy. “She
just doesn’t understand. But I’ll write so she’ll see she must come.”

“Well--you write,” the other agreed with a pathetic confidence in
Julie. “Maybe she’ll come for you. Tell her--Oh, tell her her old
Tannie is sick an’ wants her. ‘Tannie,’ that was what she always called
me: it was as near as she could come to saying ‘Aunt Annie’ when she
was little.”

Julie did write. She did not know the niece’s name, and was afraid to
ask, dreading a return of that sly suspicious look that was always
brought out on Miss Fogg’s face when she questioned her too closely
about anything. So she began the letter “Madam,” and when she came to
the signing of her own name, she hesitated. She had never yet brought
herself to write, “Julie Freeman.” She had always managed in some way
to avoid doing so. For all that she had said that the name was no lie,
she could not make herself write it. But her own name she dared not
put. So in the end she signed it, “From a Friend.”

She wrote urgently, and enclosed the sheet on which Miss Fogg’s
trembling words, “My baby child,” went slanting down the paper. Then
she sealed the envelope and stamped it.

“Now then,” she said with an assumption of confidence that she did not
feel, “what’s her address?”