“I don’t expect them to,” Julie said.

“Well, it’s lucky you don’t. Folks won’t stand for any such carryings
on. You’ll be put out of the church. Brother Seabrook’ll put you right
out--I know he will. I don’t see to save me how you dared to come back.”

“Why, I _had_ to come back here,” Julie cried. “It’s my home--it’s
where I belong. Why, I’m rooted here.”

“Well, folks ain’t goin’ to have one thing to do with you, I tell you!
I don’t know in my soul what I’m doin’ here right this minute! And
other folks ain’t goin’ to have _nothing_ to do with you.”

“No, I reckon not,” Julie answered, “but here’s where I belong just the
same.” She looked away out of the window and rested her eyes on the
sweep of autumn hills surrounding the village--she who had been for
weeks in the city, and a flat country. “Maybe you’re right, an’ folks
won’t have anything more to do with me--but--but--the mountains are
here, an’ the sun’ll rise an’ set, an’ the snow come in the winter, an’
the sap run in spring. It’s where I belong.”

“_Julie Rose!_ Upon my word I just b’lieve you’ve lost your mind!” the
other broke in.

“I’ve found my soul,” Julie interposed beneath her breath.

“There you set, nursing that nasty cat, an’ not carin’ one thing what
people think.”

“I care what God thinks.”

“Well--you better be thinking about your sin then,” Mrs. Anderson
retorted.

“My sin,” Julie repeated, and suddenly she saw an inward picture of old
Miss Fogg’s gray head upon the floor. “But--but God forgives sins!” she
cried poignantly. “He does forgive them. ‘A broken and a contrite heart
He will not despise’--the Bible says so!”

“That’s all right about the Bible,” Mrs. Anderson cried savagely. “But
you ain’t livin’ in the Bible; you’re livin’ right here in Hart’s Run.
An’ I tell you Hart’s Run folks ain’t goin’ to stand for this: they’ll
put you out of the church--you see if they don’t.”

“Will they put the Bible out, too?” A voice spoke suddenly behind them.

Turning, they saw that Doctor Franklin had come in through the front
shop and was standing looking at them. He was a country doctor,
loose-limbed, gaunt, and gray, and old--a man born in Hart’s Run, who
had ridden all the roads about it from the old horseback days down to
Ford-car times--a man who knew intimately all the physical ills and
many of the mental and spiritual ones as well, in a radius of thirty
miles--old Doc’ Franklin--old Doc’ Franklin. When people were born
he was there, and when they died he was there, gaunt and quiet and
natural, very deeply rooted, patient, and unshaken, whether he watched
at the gates of birth or at the gates of death.

They did not know how long he had been standing there.

“Well, but look a-here, Doctor,” Mrs. Anderson protested. “Here’s Julie
Rose settin’ there foolin’ over that nasty little cat, an’ not caring
_one thing_ what folks thinks of her!”

The doctor put out one long finger, and gently rubbed the kitten’s
little mouse-colored head. Fed and reassured, it looked up at him now
out of the blue loveliness of kitten-eyes, purring happily back and
forth, blowing out that occasional, impudent, and care-free bubble.

“Well, that’s sort of like me,” he said. “Other folks have time to
calculate who can stay in the church, an’ who’s got to be put out--it’s
all too mixed up for me to know. All I know is I’ve got some mighty
sick patients up the Easter road, an’ I’ve got to dust out there an’
see ’em.”

Julie looked up into the weather-beaten old face above her. “Look at
the kitten’s paw,” she begged. “Is it broken?”

He ran a thumb and forefinger lightly down the furry leg. “No, just a
bruise,” he said. “No, little cat, you’re all right,” he added for the
small patient’s benefit, giving another little tap on its head. “Julie,
have you got any fly-netting? That’s what I stopped for when I saw your
shop was open.”

“How’s the flu, doctor?” Mrs. Anderson interposed. “Any fresh cases?”

“Half a dozen, an’ not near enough people to nurse the sick ones,” he
answered. “The Chapin family’s the worst. The father died last night
and Mrs. Chapin and the boy are just as bad off as they can be--nobody
in the house to help, an’ the neighbors not doin’ as much as they might
on account of the boy’s record. Maybe I could get you to go out there
and lend a hand for a day or so,” he said, looking at Mrs. Anderson.