But as the cat paused in the doorway, looking uncertainly from one to
the other, half crouched, with green eyes glinting and tail lashing,
Mrs. Anderson dragged it forward by the scruff of the neck, and in an
instant the combination was effected. There was a pounce, a last shriek
of supreme agony from the fledgling, and with a growl the cat ran out
of the room, the bird in its mouth.

Julie leaned against the counter, swallowing convulsively.

“Julie! for mercy sake! you know that was the onliest thing to do. When
they come down the chimney like that, you just have to give ’em to the
cat. There ain’t another thing _to_ do.”

“I--I might have tried to raise it,” Julie said, weakly.

“No, you could not,” Mrs. Anderson retorted. “You don’t know what to
feed it; an’ even s’posing you did, you ain’t got time to waste pokin’
fishin’ worms down a nasty little naked bird’s throat--specially now in
the war when our boys needs every single thing we can do for ’em.”

“I know, but--”

“Well, but what?”

“It sounded so awful when the cat got it!”

“Julie! I never did see any person take things as hard as you do. I
reckon it’s because you’re so thin. Just look at your arms!” Mrs.
Anderson took one of Julie’s hands, and pushed the loose sleeve up
above her elbow. “Looks about the size of a toothpick to me. If you
were fleshier, things wouldn’t get to you so quick. Look at me, now,”
she commanded, drawing up her frank proportions. “Things have to
go through about six inches of grease ’fore they can reach me. But
you--why you’re pretty near as naked to the world as that nasty little
chimney-swallow. You can’t go through life like that. Oh, it’s all
right for a real young girl, but you must be over thirty; it’s time you
was featherin’ up, dearie.”

Julie snapped off the light in silence, and they passed out of the shop.

“Well, I will say one thing for you, you always look s’ nice,” Mrs.
Anderson approved her, as they emerged from Julie’s side door and set
out together along the village street. “I never seen you when you
didn’t look like you’d stepped right out of a bandbox. That’s a mighty
cute little collar you got on, dearie,” she continued, fingering the
delicate ruffles at Julie’s neck. Julie was constantly at the mercy of
other women’s hands. Her smallness stirred their maternal instincts;
they were apt to stroke her and patronize her. “I declare, you don’t
seem like nothing but a doll baby to me,” her companion pursued, her
large damp hand giving Julie’s shoulder a final pat. “It beats me
why you never married, Julie.--Oh my Lord!” she broke off abruptly,
clapping her hand to her mouth.

“What is it? What’s the matter?” Julie cried, in alarm.

Mrs. Anderson performed some violent mouth-gymnastics behind her palm.
“It’s my teeth,” she explained, spasmodically, at last. “I can’t seem
to get used to this new set, an’ seems like they’re always a-bitin’ at
my tongue. I have to watch ’em all the time. An’ I’m mightily afraid
they’ll drop out in company some day.” She withdrew her hand at
length, and they started on again. “But as I say,” she continued, “I
don’t see why in the name of goodness you never married.”

“I never wanted to marry,” Julie said hastily, an uncomfortable
restraint falling upon her.

“Oh yes, that’s just what every old maid says, if you’ll excuse _me_,”
Mrs. Anderson retorted.

“No--but it’s true; I mean it,” Julie protested. “I--I always just
hated the idea of getting married. It scares me to think of it.”

They were passing under an electric light, and Mrs. Anderson looked
down at her curiously. “Well, now, ain’t that funny? I just believe
that’s so,” she stated. “An’ it ain’t for want of chances, neither.
There was Sam Dodson--he courted you, didn’t he?”

Julie was silent, but in the street light Mrs. Anderson could see the
nervous self-consciousness of her face.

“Oh, all right, don’t tell, then,” she continued. “But everybody knows
he did, an’ Pinckney Wayland, too--and wasn’t there a drummer feller
from Cincinnati? Why, Julie, you’ve had a heap of chances. Most people
would brag about ’em. Scary as you are, I’d think you’d want to be
married an’ have a man ’round to look after you--There! there, now!”
She stopped again, dramatically.

“What is it? Your teeth?” Julie inquired, with concern.

“No, but I got an idea. It’s come to me all of a sudden. I just believe
I’ll make a match between you and the new preacher. Now I think that’d
be real suitable. He’s about the right age for you, an’ maybe marrying
a widower like that wouldn’t scare you s’ much.”