Miss Fogg had sprung to her feet, and was glaring at her.

“Oh my Lord!” she cried, “Can’t you leave _nothing_ be?”

“I’m sorry; I didn’t know it was locked,” Julie apologized hastily.

“My Lord! Can’t I have _no_ place to myself no more?” the other
stormed, sinking down again and running her trembling hands wildly
through her hair.

“I’m so sorry,” Julie pleaded again. “See, I’m not touching it. I won’t
touch it again.”

But it took her some time to soothe Miss Fogg and to win her confidence
once more; and always afterward Julie was conscious of a certain
uneasiness on the old woman’s part whenever she came near that especial
drawer.

But on the whole it was a happy and beautiful morning for Julie, and
even for Miss Fogg it held a faint return to life.

Julie tried again that night to tell Tim what Miss Fogg meant to her.
It was a mystery that she could not quite explain to herself. She was
constantly drawn back to interpret it to him.

“It’s like she was my child,” she said. “I’m giving her life. She’s
mine. Everybody’s forgotten her. Life’s forgot her, an’ gone on by;
but now I’ve come along, an’ brought some of it back to her. It’s like
all the sufferings of the world had got a-hold of my heart, an I _had_
to go down into hell to drag folks out. It isn’t just that poor old
soul. She stands for all the rest: all of ’em that’s suffering. It’s
something bigger almost than I can feel, but it’s got a-hold of me, an’
it’ll _never_ let me go. Oh, my honey! my love!” she burst out, holding
the lapels of his coat and staring up into his face. “You know what it
is! It’s our love gone beyond itself--beyond just us, an’ out into all
the world.” For a moment her eyes blazed up into his and her face was
a white flame, then he put his hand over the wide gaze and turned her
face against his breast pressing it there with both hands.

“Little honey, don’t!” he cried. “You’re mine. Don’t slip away to all
the world.”

It made Julie happy when anyone in the house commented upon Miss Fogg’s
improved condition. She was pleased when Mrs. Watkins said, “Well, you
certainly are the miracle-worker! Who ever would have thought you could
get that old soul to look so spruced up an’ reasonable. Why, she looks
almost like real folks now.”

Mrs. Watkins was rocking back and forth in a chair which creaked
regularly as it struck a certain board in the floor, the while she
fanned herself and the baby in her arms with a frayed palm-leaf fan,
which she used also to emphasize her remarks.

“She _is_ better, isn’t she?” Julie said, eager for more praise of her
creation.

“She is that,” Mrs. Watkins assented cordially. “But it’s you that’s
done it.” She pointed the fan at Julie. “You mark what I say, it’s you
that’s put life into the old graveyard-deserter. She hasn’t got any
real life of her own: she’s just what you’ve made of her. You’ve put
life into her like a kid blowing up a toy balloon; but if you was to
quit blowing at her she’d go flat again, or maybe bust.”

“I know,” Julie admitted uneasily. “That’s the reason I wish her niece
would come to her.”

“Niece?” Mrs. Watkins swept a fly off the sleeping baby’s face and
paused, staring at Julie. “Niece?” she snorted. “I’m mighty doubtful
about any niece, myself.”

“Why, she’s got a photograph on her mantel of a girl that she says is
her niece,” Julie cried.

“Well, maybe she is. I don’t know for certain,” Mrs. Watkins returned,
still doubtfully. “I know the picture. Miss Fogg used to let me into
her room sometimes before she got so cranky an’ suspicious. An’ I know
she _says_ it’s her niece, but if it is, believe me, she certainly
don’t care one thing about her old aunt. Miss Fogg’s been in this house
for all the eight years I’ve been here--for all she thinks we’re so
common, she keeps a stayin’ with us--an’ I’ve never seen any niece
in all that time; an’ she don’t ever seem to have no letters, or word
of any kind from the niece--not even at Christmas--that I know of.
My, ain’t it hot!” she interpolated, putting up one languid hand and
plucking a wisp of hair back from her forehead. “I just b’lieve that
photograph’s a picture of some girl she used to sew for, and she likes
to b’lieve it’s kin to her, poor soul.”

“Oh! it must be her niece,” Julie cried, distressfully. “It would be
awful if it weren’t. Why, she’s all poor old Miss Fogg has in the
world--the last straw of life that she clings to. It would be awful if
she didn’t have her!”