He sat there a long time until his legs grew stiff and went to sleep.
Then he stirred uneasily, drawing them in, and looking again at the
waiting meal.

“I reckon I better eat something; it’s gettin’ late,” he whispered
to himself. He turned to the table and helped himself to some food
tentatively, but as he did so he caught sight of Julie’s apron where
it had fallen to the floor from its accustomed hook.

“Honey, your apron’s on the floor,” he said. He rose stiffly and going
over picked up the checked gingham, but when he thought it was secure
on the hook it fell down in soft folds against him, and he clutched it
suddenly to his breast. “Honey! Julie! _Don’t_ take it so hard!” he
cried. After the apron was once more restored, he came back and looked
at the table and knew that it was impossible to eat.

“I reckon I better clear things away,” he thought drearily.

He began moving very quietly and carefully about the room, doing
everything as nearly as Julie would have done it as he could. He put
all the food away in the ice-box, folded up the linen, and set the
china in its place. But his hands were not very steady, and as he
picked up one of the rosebud cups, a sudden noise upstairs made him
start, and it fell out of his hands and crashed to the floor. “Aw--Oh!
I’ve broken your cup,” he cried in dismay. He stooped, and gathering
up all the pieces tried ineffectively to fit them together. “One of
your best cups, honey, you thought so much of: I’ve broke it,” he
confessed. Suddenly the edges he was trying to fit together blurred
in a dazzled line and the tears rushed into his eyes. He laid the
shattered pieces in a desolate pile on the table, and stumbling into a
chair, buried his head in his arms beside them.

Later on, there was a knock at the door and the coroner came in to
ask for evidence. Tim gave him the note Miss Fogg had written Julie,
and the coroner, a rather sombre dark man with a sallow face and
outstanding ears set wide as though to catch every note of horror that
the world held, read it, holding it beneath the gas jet that made
shining lights on his hair, pausing every now and again to say, “What
do you make of that word?”

“Well,” he said when he had puzzled it all out, “it’s suicide all
right, no question about that. Everybody in the house says the old soul
was more’n half cracked, anyhow. I reckon she’s had that pistol loaded
an’ handy for some time.”

“She had it in that drawer she always kep’ locked,” Tim told him.
“Julie said there was one drawer she was always mighty oneasy about.”

“Is that so?” said the other.

“Yes, Julie said so.”

“Who’s she? Is that your wife?” the coroner demanded.

Tim hesitated. It seemed impossible even to say the little word,
“Yes.” But the coroner, busy folding up Miss Fogg’s note, labeling it
and tucking it away in his wallet, where no doubt it found itself in
company with many another pitiful disaster, appeared not to notice his
silence.

“I’ve heard ’bout your wife,” he said. “Everybody says she was mighty
good to the old woman--seemed to put new life into her. Can I speak to
her?”

“She’s feeling bad,” Tim hesitated. “She’s mightily upset. She ran
upstairs with everybody, and saw the poor old soul layin’ on the floor.”

“Yes,” the coroner nodded, “right much of a mess, wa’n’t it? Liable to
upset anybody not used to viewin’ all kinds of remains, like I am.”

“It was all over her clean waist,” Tim explained earnestly. “Julie just
ironed that waist for her--just a little bit before.”

“I see,” said the coroner. “Perfectly natural she’s upset. Well, no
need to disturb her if she’s feeling bad. This note gives plenty of
evidence.”

He turned to go, but Tim detained him with an eager hand upon his arm.

“A crazy old woman like--like she was, would be mighty apt to commit
suicide, wouldn’t she? It would take less to make her do it than it
would for a person in good health?” he begged. “She’d do it easier than
most folks, wouldn’t she?”

“Oh, yes, any little thing’d be liable to tip her over,” the
other assented. “This trouble now, what she speaks of here in the
letter--that other woman goin’ off with the niece’s husband--that was
all she needed: that did the trick for her, poor old soul. Well,” he
turned again to go, “no need to trouble your wife if she’s feelin’ bad.
Tell her she ought to feel good to think she was able to do so much for
the old lady.”