As the days drifted by, it seemed indeed as though Julie’s passion
of loving service had worked a miracle in old Miss Fogg--that broken
vessel which life had cast upon the midden of the world. Her canary
bird, restored to life, sang in the window. The geranium was dead; but
Julie bought another, so the effect of the room was gay, with white
curtains blowing in the wind, the bird’s song, and the flower in the
sunshine.

The room’s vigor and cleanliness inspired Miss Fogg to attempt mending
her clothes and putting them in order.

“It would be a right funny thing,” she said, “if I couldn’t put my own
old duds to rights, me that always did the fine sewin’ for all the
swellest brides in town.”

Her fits of depression and indifference persisted but, sustained by
Julie, she was more alive between the attacks, more able to look after
herself.

One morning when Julie went up to her, she found the old woman, a
fantastic gingham cap upon her head, busy turning out all her drawers,
with a spasmodic energy.

“I got to get everything straight--all nice and clean,” she announced.
“Wait,” she added. She tiptoed across to the door and closed it.
“Sh-sh!” she whispered. “There ain’t a soul in this house a person can
trust. They spy on me all the time. They peep at me over the transom
an’ spy in at the keyhole. Ain’t it just awful what some folks will do?”

She stood close to Julie and spoke into her ear mysteriously. “Sh-sh!
there’s one of ’em at the keyhole now.”

Julie went quickly over and threw wide the door. The hall was
completely empty.

“There’s nobody there,” she said. “You just thought you heard somebody.”

“Hm!” the old woman retorted scornfully but still whispering. “So _you_
think; but they don’t fool me. They’re quick enough to jump away when
you open the door. I’ve quit doin’ _that_. I’m up to their tricks, an’
I got a way to fool ’em all right.”

Catching up an old spotted handkerchief, she hung it stealthily on the
handle of the door. “There, that’ll fix ’em!” she triumphed. “If they
want to peep, let ’em peep into that handkerchief. They’ll see all them
red spots, an’ then they’ll run out in the street an’ say, ‘Old Miss
Fogg’s done killed herself, an’ her blood’s all over the floor.’ That’d
be funny, wouldn’t it?” She gave a sudden crazy laugh. “I _kin_ kill
myself all right, but it won’t be none er their business if I do. It
won’t be their brains on the floor.”

A shiver ran through Julie.

The old woman sank down upon the edge of her bed and stared at the
floor. “That’s what comes of livin’ with common people,” she moaned. “I
ain’t used to common folks an’ I ain’t a-goin’ to start runnin’ with
’em now, me that’s sewed for all the best folks in town. I wouldn’t mix
with this common lot, not to save their souls I wouldn’t; an’ my little
baby child wouldn’t neither; she wouldn’t turn her hand over for er one
of ’em.”

“Maybe your little niece will come soon,” Julie said catching at that
one bright hope.

“Sh-sh!” the other commanded. Rising, she tiptoed over to the door
again and, raising the handkerchief, bent her old back and peeped out
through the keyhole. Then dropping it, she came back to Julie. “That
was what I wanted to tell you,” she whispered. “I wouldn’t be surprised
if she was to come soon now--real soon. I had a dream last night--I’m
mighty apt to have dreams when anything’s goin’ to happen--an’ the
dream said she was comin’ soon. That’s why I got to get everything
straight for her.”

“I’ll help you!” Julie cried eagerly. “We’ll get everything all nice
before she comes.”

Julie fell to work at once. The old woman attempted a fitful
assistance, but her burst of energy gave out before it had carried her
far, and soon she retired to the easy chair by the window, watching
Julie with dull eyes, or staring down at her lap and moaning, “Oh my
Lord, Oh my Lord!” from time to time.

Julie was amazingly happy. So happy that she broke into little snatches
of song as she moved about the room, dusting and cleaning it, and
straightening the wild heap of garments in Miss Fogg’s drawers. So
happy that the moaning old woman crumpled up in her chair did not
seem repulsive to her, but rather, as always now, an outlet for the
abounding joy that surged through her.

There was only one little rift the whole morning through. That was when
Julie essayed to open a small drawer in Miss Fogg’s bureau. She had
turned out and straightened all the others, but when she came to this
one it refused to open. Thinking it merely stuck, she tugged upon the
handles, but was stopped by a sudden cry, almost a scream, from the
old woman. “Leave that drawer alone, leave it alone, I tell you!” she
cried. Julie jumped round, startled.