She made the statement defiantly, yet there lurked in her eyes an
anguish of entreaty that implored Julie to confirm her.

“Why, yes, indeed!” Julie answered eagerly. “Why, yes, she’s liable to
come almost any day now.”

“But she _don’t_ come! She don’t come! Oh, my baby! My honey! I want to
see you so bad!” Once more the old woman began to rock herself to and
fro hopelessly.

“But she will come! She’ll come soon now,” Julie promised.

Old Miss Fogg gazed up into her face, her mouth hanging open and
tremulous with eagerness, as she gathered encouragement from Julie’s
assurance. Then her eyes wandered away over the room.

“But look!” she cried. “If she was to come, how’m I going to see her
in this pigsty? I ought to fix up; but I ain’t got the heart--I ain’t
even got the heart to wash my face,” she confessed looking at Julie
piteously, the slow impotent tears gathering in her eyes.

“Never mind, never mind,” Julie comforted her quickly. “You don’t have
to worry. I’ll fix it all up for you. You lie down now,” she coaxed.
“Lie down and rest a while, an’ I’ll get things straight.”

To her surprise the old woman yielded, and let herself be helped back
into bed, where exhausted by all her storms of emotion, she fell asleep
almost immediately.

That was the beginning of Julie Rose’s friendship with old Miss Fogg.
Thereafter, as the days went by, tenderly, persistently, baffled
sometimes by the old woman’s outbreaks of rage and suspicion, or worse
still by the terrible inertia of depression which constantly settled
over her, Julie gradually won her way further and further with the
other, and by the sheer indomitable persistency of her compassion
managed to drag her back occasionally almost to the shore of normal
life. At least her room and her person were clean and in order, and
Julie saw to it that she had regular meals--dainty little lunches
cooked by herself. Sometimes she was rewarded by an outburst of
gratitude, that usually ended in tears. “You’re good!” the old woman
would cry seizing Julie’s hand convulsively. “I don’t know what you
want to be so good to a poor old wreck like me for.”

But sometimes she pushed her food away, and refused to eat. “What’s
the use of eatin’?” she would weep. “Oh my Lord! What’s the use of
_anything_ in this world? Oh, I wish’t I was dead! But I ain’t even got
ambition enough to die!”

Sometimes Julie coaxed her with flattery, into tidying herself up.
“That black dress certainly is a handsome piece of goods, and that gray
one, too,” she said.

“Why, of course I got handsome clothes,” Miss Fogg retorted with a
proud jerk of her head. “Why, who do you take me for? I don’t belong
with all the common trash that lives in this house. I’ve sewed for all
the best people in town. I ain’t used to common people; I’m used to
quality. But these folks here--they’re as common as pig-tracks. You
don’t s’pose I’d run with them, do you? An’ I’ve always been used to
keeping myself nice an’ elegant. I wasn’t one to lay around in wrappers
all day. But now--Oh my Lord!”

“Look,” Julie hastily interposed, forestalling the rising tears. “Just
see how nice you look with your hair fixed like I’ve done it to-day.”

She held a mirror up, and Miss Fogg peered blindly at herself for a
moment in silence. But as she looked a dim satisfaction grew in her
face.

“Why that looks real nice, don’t it?” she said, turning her head to one
side with self-conscious shyness.

Indeed, with her indomitable persistency Julie had won out of this
human ruin some of the mellowed grace of a more fortunate old age. With
the creative power of her devotion she had gone forth into the dark
waters engulfing the old woman, had struggled there, and dragged her
back into life; and having won a precarious hold upon her affection,
she poured forth the overflowing joy of her heart in her service.

Miss Fogg continued to stare at her reflection, her lip trembling
slightly. It seemed as though the vision of her past self was given
faintly back to her out of the mirror. She bent over and looked still
closer. “Why,” she said slowly, “that’s _me_--that’s the way I used
to be ’fore I lost my ambition.” She raised her eyes to Julie with
a faltering surprise. “Why,” she cried, “Why you’ve give me back to
myself.”

She patted the ruffles at her neck, and smoothed her hair with a
fleeting return of vanity.

“I was always a great hand to keep myself fixed up nice,” she boasted.
“An’ now you’ve put new life into me.”