At last she heard a door upstairs open--she was not sure which one it
was--and then the steps that she knew were Elizabeth Bixby’s came down
the stairs and down the hall. They would be at her door in an instant.
The two little personalities in her lap, that were made of her hands,
jumped desperately tight together. But again the feet did not pause,
but pattered definitely past and out into the street. Julie leaped up
and peered through the blinds. Perhaps she was mistaken: perhaps it was
not Elizabeth after all. But it was. She saw her face distinctly as she
went down the steps--and saw something else as well. Elizabeth had been
crying--was still wiping her eyes rather blindly. How strange that was!
What could have moved _her_ to tears? The surprise of this stayed for a
space the leap of relief over her departure; but in a moment it came,
and Julie relaxed all over as though a warm beneficent tide flowed
through her. Perhaps they were safe after all. Safe--

At this point there came an imperative knock and, when Julie forced
herself to go over and open the door, she found Mrs. Watkins there
eager with news.

“Well, you was right after all!” she announced. “The miracle’s
happened. Miss Fogg’s niece’s been to see her--that was her just went
down the steps.”

“_That?_” stammered Julie. “That--that lady that just went down the
steps--Miss Fogg’s niece?”

Mrs. Watkins nodded. “M--h’m, that’s the wonderful niece. She asked me
did Miss Fogg live here, and when she went away she told me she was her
niece. She’s been upstairs with the old soul a right smart spell, an’
I heard her tell her when she left she’d be back to see her again in
a couple of days. She said she was going to Camp Lee for a day or so.
When she left I seen she’d been cryin’.”

“Yes,” Julie said, “I saw that, too.”

“I reckon it must of upset her to find the old lady so bad off. Soon
as she’d gone I flew upstairs to see how the old soul was takin’ it.
But she’s got her door locked, an’ wouldn’t answer or let on she was
there when I called her name. Oh, I reckon I’m too common to hear about
the grand niece! But you go up, dearie, an’ hear the news. She’s your
baby--she’ll talk for you.”

“I--I _can’t_!” Julie gasped and put her hand to her head. “I feel
so--Oh, I feel so bad,” she faltered.

“Why, you do look real white!” Mrs. Watkins exclaimed with concern.
“What’s the matter? How do you feel bad?”

Julie sat weakly down in a chair. “I--feel--shaky,” she got out
slowly, speaking with difficulty.

“You lie right down, an’ don’t do a thing for a spell. I’ll bet it’s
the heat--you ain’t used to this city heat--an’ you seem to have a kind
of a nervous chill, too.”

“I’m--I’m all right,” Julie got out, struggling to keep her teeth from
chattering. “I reckon it is the heat. I--Oh don’t--don’t bother. I’ll
just lie--down a little bit.”

She went unsteadily over, Mrs. Watkins piloting her, and lay down
upon the sagging plush sofa, a sofa that had adjusted its spring to
accommodate the weight, and probably the sorrows also, of many human
beings before her.

“Yes--now, that’s right,” Mrs. Watkins said, giving her a pat as she
settled a cushion for her. “What you want is to keep right still. Don’t
stir now. Just lay still an’ think about nice things. Think about Miss
Fogg’s niece bein’ here at last. Ain’t that a wonder? It ought to
please you, after you worked so hard to get her here.”

Looking up at her from the sofa, Julie suddenly brought her hands tight
together, and burst into a high startling scream of laughter.

“Why, so it was! It _was_ all my doing!” she gasped, shaken by one
shuddering gust of laughter after another.

“What on earth ails you? That ain’t as funny as all that,” Mrs. Watkins
cried. “Hush, hush now! Hold on to yourself, Mis’ Freeman. Quit that!
You’ll be in hysterics d’rectly.”

“No, no! It isn’t funny. I won’t laugh. I promise not to laugh,” Julie
gasped, biting her lips hard together between sentences, and fighting
to choke back the wild paroxysms. “I won’t laugh. And _she_ was crying!
I saw her crying! Oh--” The tension broke and she collapsed into a
flood of tears.

“There now, that’s better.” Mrs. Watkins patted her shoulder. “Now
you’ll be all right in a little bit.”

“I--I am all right,” Julie affirmed presently, pressing her hand
against her shaking mouth. “Don’t mind me--don’t. I--I just get this
way sometimes.”