It was the summer of 1918, and naturally most of the fitful
conversation turned upon the war, although Elizabeth said flatly that
she was just sick to death of the hateful business; and Aunt Sadie
answered Brother Seabrook’s scraps of war news with, “Yes, yes--have
some preserves?” The reverend gentleman, however, was patriotic, and
would not be deflected from the subject.

“Well,” Elizabeth said, at last, making the best of it, “my husband’s
liable to get his draft call most any time now. It’ll be right hard
on me, but if the country needs him, I’ll have to give him, I reckon.
Everybody’s got to do their bit.”

She patted her hair and sighed, basking in her own nobility.

Though Aunt Sadie tolerated Elizabeth, she was apt to flash out at her
every now and again.

“_You_ give him?” she snorted. “Humph! that sounds mighty grand, but
believe _me_ if Uncle Sam wants him, he’ll take him all right, without
any giving on your part.”

Elizabeth’s eyes glittered angrily. She did not quite dare to cross
swords with the older woman, so she turned upon her husband.

“Well, he’ll make a great soldier, won’t he!” she jeered.

“Why, I wouldn’t hardly think he was up to the standard height,”
Brother Seabrook said, running his eye appraisingly over Mr. Bixby.

“Oh, it ain’t always the biggest men makes the best soldiers,” Mrs.
Johnson protested.

They all fixed their scrutinizing eyes upon the little man, but none
of them spoke directly to him, unconsciously following the impersonal
attitude that Elizabeth had adopted.

Julie was standing in the background, having just returned from the
kitchen. She had paused involuntarily when she heard Elizabeth’s remark
about Mr. Bixby’s being drafted, and her eyes went quickly to his face.
She saw his lips give that faint nervous twitch, and his face stiffen.
Then when they all turned their impersonal scrutiny upon him, as though
they were inspecting some curious specimen, she saw the unhappy crimson
flush up to his eyes.

“What’s the matter with us?” Julie thought violently, unconsciously
classing herself with him. “Why can’t folks see us? We’re there just
like anybody else, but they always act like they didn’t see us. Someway
we stand outside of people’s minds, an’ have to wait for them to open
an’ let us in. And they never do.”

Suddenly familiar words flashed upon her with such vividness as to
leave her giddy. “Behold, I stand at the door and knock.” She was aware
of so enormous an extension of understanding that the whole of it was
beyond her grasp, making her feel for an instant as though she reeled
into a larger world. She knew that it was just Mr. Bixby sitting there,
silent and embarrassed, shut away from life by the impersonal eyes upon
him; and yet in that moment of insight it seemed to her that the great
essence of humanity was there looking forth from the caged bars of the
little man’s face, waiting patiently, terribly, for an invitation to
enter. “I got to let him in--I _got_ to get the door open someway an’
let him in!” she thought fiercely. She moved forward quickly, holding
out her plate of waffles. “Have a fresh waffle, Mr. Bixby,” she urged.
“These are nice and crisp. I’d like for _you_ to try one.”

It was all perfectly simple and natural, and yet the slight emphasis
she laid upon the personal pronoun seemed to open the door for him that
he might emerge into the life of a real human being, set free from the
negative limbo to which the others had driven him.

He looked up quickly and gladly into her face, with that look of
release and freedom, and the breaking of a constricting cord which she
had read in his expression before.

“I thank you, I thank you, Miss Julie,” he said gratefully. It was
the first time he had dared the intimacy of her Christian name. He
helped himself, and, fortified by her creative touch, held the waffle
suspended upon his fork for a moment’s approving contemplation.

“My!” he said, with the air of a connoisseur, “That’s about the finest
thing in the way of waffle-flesh I ever did see. I’d recommend you to
try one of this batch, Brother Seabrook,” he urged.

“Well, I thought I was about done, but if you advise it, Brother
Bixby--” Brother Seabrook hesitated.

“I don’t just advise you to take one, I prescribe it for your health,”
Mr. Bixby returned; at which every one laughed except Elizabeth, who
was furious over his being allowed any personality.

But for the other two Julie had opened the door and let him in, so
that he emerged into their consciousness as some one to be taken into
account. Brother Seabrook fell into talk with him about the war, and
as to the possibility of his draft call, ignoring Elizabeth’s ruffled
attempts to draw the conversation back to herself. The supper came to
an end presently, and to Elizabeth’s chagrin, Mrs. Johnson accepted her
perfunctory offer to help with the dishes.