“Well, she’s really lookin’ better than usual right now. She has spells
when she don’t come out of her room for days together, when she don’t
even pretend to fix herself up. You think she’s awful looking now; but
you just ought to see her then. She just stays shut up in that room
and don’t see a soul except her canary bird, if you could call that
a soul--just for days. I don’t know what in the world she does with
herself--just sits an’ mopes, I reckon.”

“But don’t people go in to see her, to see what’s the trouble?”

“Oh, she don’t thank you to: she’s mighty peculiar, I tell you. An’
proud--_who-ee!_ It’s enough to kill you with laughing, but that old
rag-bag that looks like she hadn’t washed herself for a week--she
thinks herself better’n anybody in this house. Wouldn’t that kill you?
That’s because she used to go out sewing for some of the grand people
here in town. That’s her trade--dressmaking.”

“Oh, well, then she and I ought to get along,” Julie cried eagerly.
“I’ll go to see her. I hate to have any one look so awful.”

“She won’t thank you an’ she won’t see you; she’ll just slam the door
in your face. She seems like she’s mighty suspicious of every one. She
won’t have a thing to do with anybody, I tell you.”

“I’m going to see her just the same,” Julie persisted. “It’s awful--the
look in her face, I mean. It’s like she hadn’t a friend in the world.”

“She won’t let anybody be friends with her, she’s so proud an’ touchy,
an’ so peculiar.” Mrs. Watkins hastened to defend the neighborliness of
the house. “People ain’t going to put up with it. Some of the ladies
she sewed for used to come to see her and bring her things, but she’s
so stand-offish even with them that they’ve about quit comin’.”

“What does she live on?” Julie inquired.

“Oh, she ain’t poor. She’s got some private means of her own. No,
ma’am, she ain’t poor.”

“There’s something dreadful the matter with her,” Julie said
distressfully. “I met her one day on the porch and looked straight into
her eyes, and I never saw anything so--so awful looking.”

“Well, there was a doctor once came to see her; one of the ladies
she used to sew for had him to come; an’ he said she was mighty bad
off; said she had some sort of melancholia, an’ it wasn’t really safe
to have her goin’ ’round loose; said she was liable to do something
terrible.”

“What? What would she do?” Julie’s eyes widened with apprehension.

“I dunno.” The other shook her head. “Maybe kill herself, or
something.”

“How _awful_!” Julie gasped, appalled. “The poor, poor thing!”

That night after supper, as they sat in the little park overhanging the
river, Julie confessed to Tim that she had told Mrs. Watkins she came
from Hart’s Run.

“I don’t know how I ever came to do such a thing,” she said in a
frightened voice; “I didn’t mean to speak of it; I tried not to. I
tried my best to lie. An’ first I said ‘Red River,’ but right away I
changed it to ‘Hart’s Run.’ I had to. It seemed like I’d almost slapped
my home an’ all the days that were gone right in the face when I said
‘Red River.’ I oughtn’t to have said ‘Hart’s Run’--I know I oughtn’t
to. Oh, do you reckon it’s done any harm? Do you think we ought to move
away some place else?”

“No--no. It’s all right. I don’t expect she even noticed,” he comforted
her. “It’s all right.”

She was leaning against him, and he felt a tremor of fear shiver
through her.

“My little honey, it’s all right,” he whispered, his arm tightening
round her. “It’s all right. I’m glad you said ‘Hart’s Run.’ I wouldn’t
have had you not to. Don’t get scared.”

They were all alone on the lower terrace of the park. At their back
rose a steep bank. In front was the sheer drop to the river, overhung
by the wide soft spaces of the misty air. Their hands met in a tight
clasp, and for a moment they were silent in the ecstasy of their
complete trust in each other. But after a moment she spoke diffidently.

“Tim, I got a notion about our--our happiness.” They never spoke of it
as love. “I want to tell you about it.” She had fallen into a little
trick of saying eagerly, “I want to tell you,” or “I want to tell you
all about it.” And always he answered, “Tell me, my little honey.”

Since her mother’s death there had never been any one who had really
wanted to hear what she had to say, and even her mother had not wanted
it, had not understood, in the complete way that he did. Now, because
of his understanding, her thoughts poured themselves out in a manner
that astonished her. His creative sympathy made ideals and fancies,
which heretofore had been too deep or too elusive to be expressed, come
forth fleshed in words.