In the early morning following that long night Julie came softly into
the bedroom and found Tim lying there asleep, all dressed as he had
flung himself upon the bed. He opened his eyes as she entered.

“I--I broke one of your little cups last night, honey,” he said
confusedly, “one of your best ones. I certainly am sorry.” He sat up in
bed, staring at her in all the bleak tragedy of the gray dawn.

“I broke your little best cup, an’ I reckon I’ve broke your heart,
too,” he said.

She put out her hands swiftly and drew his head passionately close
against her breast, bowing her face down to it.

“My love, my love!” she cried, stumbling and sobbing through the words.
“You _made_ all my heart--all my life--it was yours to break or do with
like you pleased.”

For a time they clung together in tears. But at last he raised his head
and, putting one of his hands on each of her arms, looked curiously
into her eyes. The storm of her emotion was passed, and she was calm
now. She seemed changed also from the small woman of the day before.
Her spirit had withdrawn from the surface, and was gazing forth from
deeper levels of life. The expression of her eyes was wiser, steadier;
she even appeared physically larger, a stronger woman, than she had
been before. What encounters of the spirit had she faced alone through
all the dark of the night?

In the long gaze that passed between them they were confronted by a
tremendous question. Each asked it silently of the other. Julie was the
first to answer.

“Yes,” she nodded. “It’s come to an end, my honey. We got to part
now--’fore I kill somebody else.”

“Julie, she was crazy!” he cried as before.

But she brushed his words aside. “All night I’ve seen the blood on her
waist,” she said. “It mocked me. The two were right together: the clean
waist I was so proud with myself for fixin’ for her, an’ the spots of
her blood. They were like mouths laughing at me with the awfulest
laughter--red words hollerin’ out across the world, ‘Look! Look! Look
at the way Julie Rose gives life to folks!’ Tim, last night I went down
deep--I was shoved down into the deepest places--I see it all different
now--I’ve _got_ to stand square with folks now.”

He nodded. “Yes, it’s come to that with both of us--Julie,” he burst
out, “I ain’t where I ought to be! When the soldiers went by in the
street, an’ that night when they showed the doughboys in France on the
screen, you didn’t notice, I reckon--”

“I did. I did!” she broke in. “I’ve known all along how it was with
you, but I wouldn’t let you speak. God forgive me! I kept you from it.
I was scared.”

“Well,” he went on. “That night when they showed our boys goin’ up to
the front, there was one little feller on the screen--a runty kind of
a little feller like me--an’ as he went by he turned so’s you saw his
full face. Julie, he looked straight at me; an’ something jumped in me
an’ sez, ‘That’s your brother. _Why ain’t you with him?_’”

“I know, I know,” she cried poignantly. “Your brother! My sister! We
thought when we found ourselves we was all, but now we’ve caught a
sight of the other folks.”

“So I got to go now,” he ended. “I’ll give myself up--”

“Oh, honey! What will they do to you?”

“I dunno. But I can stand up to it. I can stand it now. You’ve made a
man of me at last.”

“Oh, my God!” she cried. “I didn’t. I tempted you away. I don’t know
what I’ve done to you. Without me you wouldn’t be in all this trouble.”

He faced her steadily. “Without you I’d never have found myself, an’
that’s God’s truth,” he said solemnly. “I’m your man, honey. You made
me. I was afraid of every one, picked on by every one, an’ then you
came along an’ set me free!”

“Our love!” she cried. “It was that set us both free so’s we found
ourselves. But that ain’t all. Last night, Tim, I understood more. It
seemed like I was shoved right down into the heart of life. I had a
kind of a vision--maybe it was only a dream: I’d been asleep, I know.
I stayed awake ’til real late, just sitting there in the dark an’
knowin’ what I’d done to her. It seemed like I’d go crazy; I couldn’t
cry; I thought my mind was about to split. An’ then at last I did: I
cried, an’ cried, though it didn’t do her no good. I kep’ thinkin’,
‘This don’t do her no good. My tears can’t help her any now.’ But they
helped me. My head stopped feelin’ so tight after that. The awful
splashes on her waist quit hollerin’ out, ‘Look! Look!,’ an’ at last I
dropped off into a doze; an’ when I waked up things was different. It
seemed like I’d shifted in deeper than I ever was before.”