“Nothing, Julie, nothing,” he repeated, still retreating sheepishly
before her, and uneasily aware that they were attracting attention from
the small group of station loafers. But Julie was swept above herself.
What people thought, or what they said was a thing beneath her feet
now. She did not even hear one of the loafers call out, “That’s right.
Miss Julie! Don’t take any foolishness off’n Ed! You got him on the run
now. Keep it up!”

“I sat out on the steps because I wanted to,” she continued fiercely.
“And what I do is no concern of yours, nor of anybody else’s.”

Edward Black fell away without another word, and Julie continued her
progress, still blown along by the gust of her rage. Presently she met
Bessie Randolph, who was the wife of Silas Randolph, the president of
the bank, a very important person in Hart’s Run.

“See that couple there,” Mrs. Randolph said, joining Julie and pointing
out the small man and his companion, who had been met by Wilson McLane,
editor of the _Hart’s Run News_. “The man must be the new printer for
the _News_. Mr. McLane told me he was expecting him by this train. That
must be his wife with him.”

“No, it’s his sister,” Julie corrected positively. She was not in the
habit of contradicting.

“Oh, then you’re acquainted with them?” the other challenged.

“I never saw them before, but I noticed them on the train, and I know
she’s his sister.”

“Well, they don’t either of them look like much,” Mrs. Randolph said
with a careless dismissal. “Come on Julie, I’ll ride you home; my car’s
right here.”

“I thank you,” Julie responded. “But I reckon I’ll walk.”

Mrs. Randolph stared at her. People did not often so lightly refuse her
condescension.

“You better ride with all those bundles,” she urged.

“No--no thank you. I want the walk,” Julie answered. “And besides, I
don’t like automobiles. It scares me to ride in them.”

For years Julie had been afraid of motors and for years she had tried
to conceal the fact. This was the first time that she had ever dared to
acknowledge it, much less to refuse an invitation from the elegant Mrs.
Randolph. But now she gave a little indifferent bow of refusal, and
went upon her way, still blown along by the gust of her anger, as she
saw again in remembrance the incident on the train platform.

“That _hateful_ woman!” she stormed to herself, the sneer on the
woman’s face when she had called her companion a “maybe man” still
sharp before her mental vision. “The hateful piece!” She found she was
repeating over and over: “I know. I understand. I know. Oh, _don’t_
take it so hard! I know how hateful folks are!--He’s as unfeathered
as I am,” she whispered to herself. “Things get at him just like they
do me, an’ he don’t know any better how to stand up against them. I
understand. I know how it is.--Well, anyhow,” she exulted, “I settled
that hateful Ed Black for once! Always picking on me. Tore my paper
doll up. Tramped on my cookie. Thought he could keep on bullyin’ me
forever, but I settled _him_ all right!” The careful speech her mother
had trained her to had slipped now, and she was reverting to the
mountain phraseology.

“Julie! Oh, Julie, wait just a minute--I want to ask you about that
crêpe waist of mine.” It was one of Julie’s customers calling to her
from a porch. People were in the habit of stopping Julie as she passed
along the street, no matter in how much haste she might be, to have
her advice about old and decrepit clothes. Although she resented this,
Julie usually meekly responded--but not this time.

“Bring your waist into the shop in the morning, and I’ll attend to it,”
she called back, continuing upon her way.

She reached home, and unlocking her door, went into her bedroom, then
depositing her bundles, removed her hat before the mirror. The face
that looked at her was flushed and alive and recreated. It was not at
all the haunted and forlorn little countenance that the glass had given
back in the morning. Julie lingered a moment, staring at herself and
wondering. She was interrupted by Mrs. Sam Wicket who entered after a
preliminary knock.

“You back, Julie?” she said. And after Julie had stated that she was
back, “Did you speak to Winter and White’s about the stove?” she
inquired.

“I did,” Julie returned, “and they’ll write to you about it.”

“Humph! Writin’ ain’t much good. Well, did you do that other little
errand for me? I ain’t got a second to stop; my light bread’s ready to
come out of the oven right this minute.”