Julie jerked her hand free.

“If I can’t do it for the Lord, I’m not likely to be able to do it
for you,” she retorted, and went lightly away down the church aisle
and out into the street, leaving him to turn a dusky red and swallow
convulsively.

“There! That’s settled,” Julie said to herself, drawing a deep breath
and aware of an enormous content and elation. Her feet moved over the
ground with the flying swiftness that had borne her up the church
aisle. She was conscious of a beautiful elasticity and freedom, as
though a binding cord that had been twisted tighter and tighter to
constriction had suddenly snapped, giving her relief and air and
release into a beneficent world. It seemed to her she had never seen a
day so exquisite. The sun bent over her in floods of golden calm. The
mountains that encircled Hart’s Run, the blue sky and white drifting
June clouds were in themselves climaxes of ecstasy, and yet they were
more also, veilings of something hidden, enormous, and completely
satisfying. She stood still in the street a minute and gazed up to the
amazing blue of the sky, with the big puffs of silver clouds riding
it. “Oh, my Lord, how beautiful that sky is!” she whispered. “And it’s
always there,” she thought in astonishment; for it was as though she
were seeing it for the first time. “Why,” she thought suddenly, “Why,
it doesn’t make any difference whether I pray or don’t pray in public.
I don’t know why I ever worried about it or about what folks would
think. Oh, ain’t the sky beautiful!” she reiterated.

She was a little behind the rest of the congregation, and as she made
her way homeward, small knots of people were all in front of her,
going slowly along. Julie was conscious of a very warm and friendly
outpouring toward them, but she was in no hurry to overtake any one.
For the moment she wanted to be alone, isolated in that enormous sense
of freedom, which only the sky was big enough to encompass.

As she approached her own house, she saw that Mr. and Mrs. Bixby were
standing there in conversation with Mrs. Wicket. She quickened her
pace, feeling her ankles supple and swift at each step, and came up to
them in a little gust of eagerness.

“Look at the sky,” she cried, waving her hand toward it.

They all stopped talking and turned their faces up, tipping back on
their heels, and shading their eyes.

“What is it? What do you see, Julie?” Mrs. Wicket demanded.

“It’s so beautiful!” Julie cried. “So blue--and those big white clouds!”

“Well, for mercy sake, is _that_ all!” the other ejaculated. “Why, I
thought it must be a flying machine.”

“But it’s so beautiful!” Julie persisted, trying to draw them into her
elation.

“I don’t care for that kind of a sky,” Mrs. Bixby said languidly. “It’s
mighty apt to bring a storm, and thunder always makes me s’ nervous.”

Julie felt crushed, as though the sky were a hat which she had offered
for sale, but which both ladies had repudiated.

Mr. Bixby essayed a timid assent. “It is beautiful,” he said, cocking
his head on one side to spy upward. “I don’t believe I ever saw it so
blue.”

“I never saw how beautiful it is,” Julie said turning to him
involuntarily. “I’ve--I’ve--why it’s like I’d just seen it for the
first time.”

He looked at her curiously, and started to speak, but Mrs. Wicket
interrupted.

“Aw, Julie,” she said, “you’re so funny! But what I want to know is,
what you went back to speak to Brother Seabrook about.”

“I went back to tell him he mustn’t call on me to pray,” Julie replied
simply.

“You _did_? Well, I never!” Mrs. Wicket cried. “For mercy sake, Julie!
What’d he say?”

“He didn’t say much. But he won’t ever call on me again.”

“Can’t you pray, Miss Rose?” Elizabeth Bixby demanded.

“No. That is, sometimes I can. I did once. But just to think of it now
makes me feel scared.”

“Well, I never did hear of a person telling a preacher a thing like
that,” Elizabeth commented heavily. “That certainly is new to me.
Hart’s Run’s a funny little place, all right!”