“I never did see anybody as awkward as you,” she said. “Spilling water
all over that child! Now for gracious sake, keep still an’ let me be
quiet a spell, and see ’f this tablet won’t help my headache some.”

He said nothing, but readjusted her pillow for her, restored the
drinking-cup to the bag, and pushed the latter well over to his side to
make more room for her, although he was himself uncomfortably squeezed,
doing it all with that air of worried endeavor, as though Fate had
presented him with a portion of life bigger than he could manage.
He had also, Julie observed, a detached manner, a little as though
his whole self were not present. It was this aloofness that made her
comment inwardly, “Well, he certainly is good to that hateful sister
of his.” True, the woman did not look like his sister, but she could
not be his wife; surely, she thought, he would have had something
different, a fuller, more alive personality, to offer to his mate.

After the suit-case was closed, he looked around again at Julie, but
she averted her eyes now, staring away out of the window, and would not
let herself glance again at him until the train was nearing Hart’s Run,
when she straightened up, and began to gather her bundles together.
Then she looked across the aisle, and saw that he and his companion
were also making preparations to leave the train. Their suit-case
was strapped; the woman had tidied herself up and put on her hat,
presenting now an appearance completely in accord with the prevailing
style; and when the conductor put his head into the train and shouted
“Hart’s Run, Hart’s Run,” they rose and moved out into the aisle.
Julie was just behind them as they approached the door. “Well, here we
are,” the man said, and both he and his companion stooped down to peer
through the windows at Hart’s Run, evidently seeing it for the first
time.

“Well, ain’t it the awfulest little hole!” the woman ejaculated.

“Oh, maybe it won’t be so bad,” he offered.

By now they had all three moved out to the platform, waiting for the
train to come to a standstill, as the dingy little station slid to meet
them.

“Maybe! maybe!” she snorted. “I’m about sick of maybe’s! You’ve been
maybe-ing all your life. I just bet before you were born somebody said,
‘Maybe it’ll be a boy,’ an’ that’s just what you are--a kind of a maybe
man.” She ended with a burst of laughter, pleased by her own wit.

He made no retort, but Julie, who was standing close beside him now,
saw him wince, saw his lips twitch, and his hands tighten spasmodically
on the suit-case. For a moment he looked wildly about like a trapped
animal seeking escape. As he did so his eyes came full upon Julie’s
face. There was such a look of desperation, of trapped and impotent
despair in them, that a surge of rage leaped within, sweeping her
beyond all the small proprieties, so that she found herself whispering
breathlessly behind the woman’s back, “Oh, don’t mind, don’t mind so! I
understand--I understand!”

He stared at her a startled, incredulous moment, the color coming up
in his face in flood after flood.

The train jerked to a standstill. They were flung together unsteadily
for an instant, and then descended the steps.

Julie did not linger. She did not look again at the little man, but
stepping past him and his companion, walked quickly along the station
platform. Her arms were full of bundles, but she was hardly conscious
of them, nor of her feet moving over the boards; the gust of her
rage blew her along with a sense of speed and lightness, almost as
though she were flying. It was glorious. It lifted her above herself.
It set her free. At that moment she was released from all the small
constrictions of her life, she was beyond fear of anything, or of any
person. Walking thus down the platform she encountered Edward Black. He
blocked her way with his great hectoring swagger.

“Oh, I know somep’n, I know somep’n,” he sang.

Julie stopped. She was so angry that her eyes glittered, and a flame
seemed to dart out of her white face.

“What do you know?” she demanded.

Edward was surprised and disconcerted. This was not the frightened
response he expected from his victim. “Oh, well, never mind,” he
muttered, and started to turn away, but Julie stepped quickly after him.

“What do you know?” she repeated furiously.

Again he backed away a step or two. It seemed to him that this enraged
little woman might fly at his throat.

“Aw, I was just foolin’, Julie,” he said weakly.

“You saw me sitting out on the church steps last night,” Julie stated
clearly and concisely. “Now, what of it?”