Harb obeyed. Roar of static from the gigantic orb ahead was a dull
background to the sharp voice that came from the instrument.

"Control Operations squadron four hundred thirty-three nine calling
'Phoenix!' Last warning! We are overhauling you and will shell you
unless you turn and surrender."

Startled, Harb Land jabbed a button and twisted the knob of the
visor-screen. The far-seeing eye quartered space behind them, and then
the black space scene held steady. There against the stars came a
little pattern of four tiny triangles of light. Triangles--galaxy-wide
sign of Control.

"By heaven, they actually have come after us!" cried Harb. "Jonny,
they're only minutes behind us and pulling up fast!"

"We broadside as soon as we range you unless you turn now," warned the
steely voice from the communic.

Laird Carlin, only a few weeks before, would no more have dreamed of
disobeying a Control Operations command than he would have of picking
stars from the sky. Galaxy citizens were trained to revere the great
organization that had made the Universe a place of law and order.

But the ancient independence of these men of Earth was strong in him
now. They had already risked so much, had incurred certain penalty even
if they now surrendered.

"Keep going!" Carlin exclaimed. "They can't follow us once you start
orbiting close to the Sun's photosphere. No ordinary Control cruiser
has heavy enough heat-screens to follow us into that!"

"By Jupiter, it's so!" exclaimed Harb, faint hope lighting his face.
"But I daren't crowd on more speed now. I've got to start decelerating
if we're to orbit correctly."

"Decelerate by plan," Jonny said grimly. "They may not range us in
time. We'll soon know."

The "Phoenix," flying at a tangent toward the gigantic sphere of the
Sun, was aiming to swing into an orbit around Sol as close as possible
to its photosphere or gaseous surface.

It had to be so. No ship would ever have power enough to go that close
to the Sun's colossal pull and hold its position by its own energy. To
get that close and to stay that close to Sol without being drawn in to
it, a ship had to go into an orbit around it like a tiny satellite.

The air in the "Phoenix" was already stifling hot. Jonny switched in
another of the heat-screens, and the dim halo around the flying ship
deepened.

Harb's fingers were flashing over the controls, decelerating, steering
the ship in a closing spiral toward the Sun.

"Carlin, talk them out of this madness!" cried Ross Floring, aghast.
"The cruisers will be broadsiding us in moments."

Carlin paid no attention. His eyes were on the visor-screen where the
four cruisers now loomed big as they came closer.

Then it came. Silent, deadly, four blinding gouts of flame burst near
the "Phoenix." Four salvos of atomic shells whose wave of force rocked
the plunging ship. Loesser came tumbling into the pilot room, red face
glistening.

"They'll bracket us next salvo or two!" he yelled. "What's our chance?"

"Turn on heat-screens Six and Seven!" roared Harb Land, without looking
around. "I'm going into orbit now!"

"It's too soon!" Jonny cried warning. "It's--"

Carlin saw that Harb hadn't even heard. The giant was recklessly
cutting the elements of their plotted course, depending on their own
power to pull into orbit in time.

The heat-screens, all they had, were on full now. Another salvo burst
to spaceward of them. Carlin knew the men behind realized Floring was
aboard. But Control Operations would sacrifice any men to prevent the
Sun-mining that always before had meant disastrous solar disturbances.

"Great blazing stars!" breathed Loesser, staring. "Look at that!"

Forgotten, the deadly shells that were groping for them. For now the
"Phoenix" was deep in the awesome corona of the star and was curving in
closer through heat that was over two thousand degrees.

Carlin's mind shook to the fearful spectacle that was the firmament.
Not he, nor any other living man, had ever come so close to a star.
They were entering a region of such violent energies that all laws of
space and time here seemed cancelled.