Carlin found his bedroom dark. No automatic lights came on when he
entered, and he could not find the switch. He gave it up, and got into
bed and lay looking heavily out into the night.

Soft wind was stirring the trees around the house. Heavy scent of
flowers drifted on it, stirring the window curtains. Down in the valley
gleamed the spaceport beacons, and beyond lay a thin rim of glimmering
sea over which the quarter-phase shield of Luna was rising.

He felt utterly miserable, homesick, wretched. If he were back at
Canopus right now, he would be dancing with Nila in Sun City ballroom,
or wandering in Yellow Gardens.

He drifted off to sleep despite himself, in his lumpy bed....

Carlin awoke with bright sunrise splashing his face. He reached
sleepily for the aerator and refreshment buttons--then remembered.

To his surprise, he was feeling much better. He had slept well in the
primitive bed, and fatigue had drained out of him.

Queer, musical notes that he guessed were calls of birds came to his
ears. The air that snapped the curtains was chill now, but pure and
sweet, subtly intoxicating.

"They do have finer air on this old world than any aerator can
furnish," he thought.

He put on a zipper-suit that was dark brown and rough in weave.

"Going native," he thought with a sour grin, and went downstairs.

Marn Land was the only person he found in the sunny rooms. She still
wore those barbaric faded old slacks, but had a red flower in her ashen
hair. A little frown of worry in her forehead disappeared as she looked
at him.

"You're feeling better, aren't you?" she asked.

"A lot," Carlin admitted. "I'm afraid I was rather rude last night, you
know."

"You were tired," she said gravely. "Just sit down. I'll get your
breakfast."

It was a new experience to Carlin to sit chatting in a sunny old
kitchen while a girl in faded slacks prepared his breakfast on an
electrode stove. Instead of punching the refreshment-button for it.

"Jonny and Harb have gone down to the spaceport," she said over her
shoulder. "They and a few friends have an old planet-ship there that
they're fixing up for a trip to Mercury."

"Mercury?" he said. "Oh, that's the innermost of these planets, isn't
it?"

"Yes. Men here on Earth are always going prospecting for copper on its
Hot Side. Jonny got up this prospecting expedition."

The breakfast she put before Carlin was of coarse wheaten bread, more
of the natural eggs and milk, and a curious brown beverage made from
stewing certain dried berries. She informed him its name was coffee.
Carlin tried it, found it bitter and unpalatable.

A little surprised by his own action, he ate nearly everything else.
The food was coarse, but satisfying enough, and he would have to get
used to it if he were to stay here.

"I'll try not to be any trouble to you," he told Marn. "I'm just
supposed to take it easy, do anything I want to."

She nodded. "I know. Some of our neighbors had Earth-treatment visitors
as lodgers. They all got to like Earth a lot before they left."

Carlin did not voice his pessimism on that point. He went to the door
and stood looking out into the sun-bright, flowery yard.

He felt at a loss. It was baffling to find himself without anything
to do, no work crowding up that must be hurried through, no crews of
ato-men to supervise in blasting spaceports out of untamed planets.

Marn looked at him understandingly. "You've always been busy, haven't
you? Earth must seem slow and dull to you."

Carlin shrugged. "I might as well get used to it. I think I'll take a
look around."

"You'll find Gramp fishing up at the north brook if you go that far,"
Marn called after him as he walked across the yard.