We Earthmen? Somehow, for the first time in all these days, Carlin's
dulled mind felt a stir of pride as though at an accolade.

He didn't like to meet Marn's pale face. But she spoke steadily.

"It's all right, Laird, about Jonny. Women of Earth for two thousand
years have seen their men go out into space--and not all come back."

Floring had followed them. "I want you to see something," he said.

He led the way toward the towering Monument of the Space-Pioneers.
Carlin looked at the roll of names. Then his eyes suddenly blurred as
he saw that, for the first time in several centuries, a new name had
been added to the bottom of that great roll.

JON LAND

Marn's eyes were shining. And her giant brother looked long, with
haggard face somehow comforted. But old Gramp Land turned sadly away.

"A name on a stone is poor exchange for my boy," he muttered. "I'm
gettin' old."

That evening, in the old house up on the ridge, they were subdued and
silent at dinner. The table was too big, and they looked around too
often as if listening for a familiar limping step and a cheerful voice.

Carlin was doubly oppressed because of the thing that he had not yet
told them. He hated, somehow, to break the news.

"There's something they found out when they made our psycho-records for
the trial," he said finally. "Mine showed that I had no instability of
coordination, no star-sickness any longer."

"You mean, you're cured?" said Harb, surprised. "Why, that's fine. I
never thought of it, but you made the trip Sunward all right, so I
should have known."

"The psychos say," Carlin told them, "that some people out in the
galaxy now and then approximate much closer to the original Earth stock
than the average. Such people respond rapidly to Earth-treatment. I'm
one of them, it seems." He added uncomfortably, "I can go back home to
Canopus now, though I'll have to work at a desk job for a year. The
only thing is that there's a ship for Canopus tonight, and there won't
be another for weeks."

"You're not going tonight?" exclaimed Harb. "Not as soon as that?"

Carlin felt a little heartsick. "I wish I didn't have to, so soon. But
there's nothing for me to do here now that I'm all okay."

He had somehow expected Marn to protest too. But she did not. She only
said quietly:

"I'll drive you down to the spaceport."

"I think I'd rather walk down," Carlin said slowly. "I don't know why,
but I would. It's not far and I sent my bags on down."

"Then I'll walk a little of the way with you," said Marn.

Twilight had changed into soft summer darkness by the time Carlin had
exchanged a last old-fashioned hand grip with Harb and Gramp Land, and
started down the road with Marn.

She went only around the first turn of the old road with him, and then
stopped.

"Good-by, Marn," he said, but she only averted her face.

Carlin hesitated, then turned and walked on. Luna was lifting its
shining shield in the east, and the silver summer silence lay over
everything, hardly broken by the stir of branches and the low buzz of
insects. The night was warm and still.

He had a lump in his throat and he tried to laugh at himself because he
had it. A man couldn't let illogical emotions overrule his reason. This
crazy, heroic old planet Earth and its people--he would never forget
them, but he had to return to his own life and work, he had to go home.

Laird Carlin suddenly stopped. He knew, abruptly, why dull oppression
had gnawed his mind all day. It wasn't because he was going home. It
was because he was leaving home. He was leaving the only place where
his spirit had ever found something it had always lacked, a peace, an
ancient certitude, a kinship that had grown and grown.

Carlin turned and strode rapidly back up the road. Not until he was
almost upon her did he perceive that Marn Land was still standing in
the silvered road where he had left her.