‘Yes, I understand,’ said the girl sullenly.

‘And you promise obedience?’

‘How can I do otherwise than obey?’ she broke out passionately. ‘The
house is yours, and you can do as you choose with it and those who
enter it. And Frederick Walcheren is not a man to thrust his company
where it is not wanted. All these accusations you bring against
him--what authority have you for them? He is to be condemned unheard,
and his religion is brought against him as a crime. If that is what
you call Christian, I’d rather be a Jew any day.’

The tone she had adopted made the old man angry. He was devotedly fond
and proud of her, but he had an obstinate temper, and would not brook
opposition to his wishes.

‘Now, now, that’s enough!’ he answered. ‘My word is law here, and
I will stand no arguments about the matter. I don’t approve of the
man--that is sufficient! Neither shall my daughter know him. As for
condemning him unheard, that is all rubbish. Hindes knows his character
as well as I do. He says--’

‘Oh! then it is to Mr Hindes I owe this unpleasant interview,’ cried
Jenny. ‘What business has he to poke his nose into my affairs? He’s
always meddling in some way or another. Mr Hindes made you sell my
beautiful hunter, because he said it was not safe for me to ride; and
Mr Hindes prevented my accepting Lady Makewell’s invitation to the
Castle, on account of some absurd rumours he had heard of her former
life. But, if Mr Hindes thinks he is to be the judge of all my actions
and the ruler of my destinies, he is very much mistaken, and so I
will let him know before he is many days older. I won’t have any man
interfering with me in this way, and turning my own parents against me.’

‘Don’t be a fool!’ exclaimed Mr Crampton, roughly. ‘Hindes is the best
friend you have--that any of us have--and it would be a bad day for the
firm and the family, that saw our interests divided. I mentioned him as
an authority for the sort of life Mr Frederick Walcheren lives, but,
far from setting me against you, he has stood up for your good sense
and filial obedience all through the discussion of this unfortunate
affair. It is I alone--your father--who has come to the conclusion to
cut Mr Walcheren’s acquaintance, and now I demand your obedience to my
commands. Once and for all, your implicit obedience. Do you promise it
me?’

‘I have no alternative!’ said Jenny.

‘All the same, I must have your promise given here, before your mother
and your aunt.’

‘Very well, then, I promise!’ replied the girl after a pause.

‘That is all I require,’ said the old man; ‘and now, I suppose, I can
go about my business. But remember! if I ever catch you trying to
outwit me by any d--d subterfuges, I will take you away from Hampstead,
and you shall never see it again whilst that man is in it.’

He turned then, as if to leave the room, but, perceiving that both his
wife and her sister were in tears, he thought he might have spoken too
harshly to this child whom he so dearly loved, and came back again for
a moment.

‘Kiss me, Jenny,’ he said; ‘I’m not angry with you, my girl, though I
may have seemed so, but it’s your happiness I have at heart and not my
own. There! there!’ with a sounding kiss on her cheek, ‘you won’t fret
about the matter, will you? and we’ll ride over together to Winchers’
to-morrow and secure the little mare you’ve set your heart on. God
bless you, my dear!’ and, with another kiss, he left them to themselves.

Jenny stood for a minute silent and motionless, then walked quickly
towards the door, as if to return to her own room.

‘Jenny, my darling,’ pleaded her mother, ‘you see the force of your
dear father’s argument, don’t you?’

She went towards the girl as she spoke, and would have wound her arms
about her, but Jenny pushed her impatiently aside.

‘Don’t bother me, mamma,’ she said, ‘you know how I hate a fuss. All
this worry is mostly your fault, you might have prevented it if you had
chosen.’

‘Oh! Jenny, my dear, how?’

‘Why, do you suppose I don’t know it has come of some repetition of
yours or Aunt Clem’s? How should papa, who is all day in the city,
and never goes with us anywhere in the evenings, have heard that I
danced more with Fred Walcheren than any other man, unless you had
told him? And I think it is beastly mean of you, too! Why can’t I
have my pleasure the same as other girls? I conclude you and papa made
love enough to each other when you were young, and yet you grudge me
a choice in the matter. I’m only to dance, and talk, and be agreeable
with such people as you select for me. It’s bitterly unfair.’