‘My dear friend,’ interposed Hindes, ‘do not pursue this torturing
subject to-night, I entreat you. Think of the trial you have already
gone through, and have some pity on yourself.’

‘No, Hindes, I wish to say what I have to say to-night, and I am quite
equal to it. I must see Throgmorton, my solicitor, about my will
to-morrow, without fail, for the next day I intend taking my wife and
her sister to Scotland for a change. But I will be as brief as I can. I
mean, therefore, to alter my will with respect to the names, but not to
disposition of property. To my wife and her sister, I shall leave, for
their lifetimes, the half of my fortune, and the other half--my poor
Jenny’s share--to you.’

‘To _me_,’ exclaimed Henry Hindes, starting from his chair. ‘No, no, it
is impossible. The very idea is horrible to me. I will not take it.’

Mr Crampton gazed at this sudden eruption in mute surprise.

‘But why not you, my dear Hindes?’ he said, after a pause. ‘You are
the best--I may say--the nearest and dearest friend I possess; and now
that _she’s_ gone, your children are the only ones in whom I feel any
interest. I can never thank nor repay you for all you have done for
me during this sad time. I do not mean to offer you my fortune as a
requital, only to show you how deeply I have felt your goodness to me,
and how truly I value your friendship and the love you felt for my poor
girl.’

‘I cannot take it--it is impossible,’ gasped Hindes, as he nervously
swept his brow, over and over again, with his handkerchief.

‘I know you are rich enough for every ordinary purpose, my dear fellow,
but wealth is never unwelcome. Even with our combined fortunes,
you will not be a Rothschild. And, even if you were, you have three
children to spend it on, and may have more. If you absolutely refuse to
be my heir, I will make little Walter so. You will not refuse to let me
benefit your child, to pass on to him that which was intended for my
own.’

‘I would rather not indeed!’ repeated Hindes. ‘Walter will have plenty.
The idea of his being your heir is painful to me. Surely there are
members amongst your own or your wife’s family who would be thankful to
be remembered by you, and need your kindness more than my children do.’

Mr Crampton looked puzzled and a little vexed. He had wished to show
his appreciation of the Hindes’s affection for his dead daughter, and
his partner’s determined refusal of his offer wounded him. It is not
pleasant to have an intended kindness thrown back in one’s face. But
all he said was,--

‘You have disappointed me!’

‘I am sorry,’ said Hindes, spasmodically, ‘but it took me by surprise.
It is more than I deserve at your hands--I feel as if I had no right to
accept your bounty. People might think it strange--they might begin to
question--’

‘What could they question? What right would they have to think it
strange?’ demanded Mr Crampton, querulously. ‘Have I not a right to
dispose of my money in my own way? Come, Hindes, if it is not to be
you, it must be your son, so I give you fair warning, and you can
divide your own money amongst your children as you choose. But little
Walter will be my heir--will take the place of my poor murdered Jenny,
whether you like it or no. I will give Throgmorton the necessary
directions to-morrow.’

‘My God, my God!’ groaned Hindes, below his breath.

‘My poor friend, I know you are feeling this trouble almost as much
as myself,’ continued Mr Crampton, ‘that is what has endeared you so
to me since it occurred. I wonder what that fellow Walcheren, who has
been the cause of it all, is thinking of at the present moment. If he
has a conscience, by Jove! I don’t envy him the possession of it. Say
what you will, Hindes, I shall always look upon him as her murderer. If
he didn’t push her over the cliff, which I am half inclined sometimes
to believe, his carelessness was the real cause of it. Why did he
leave her alone, such a wild, thoughtless, heedless creature as she
was--plucky to a fault, and ready to dare anything. Why wasn’t he by
her side, either to defend her against the villain who assaulted her,
or to save her from her own wilfulness?’

‘Oh! sir, pray do not discuss the matter any more, at least to-night,’
said Hindes, in a voice of abject entreaty. ‘Suppose you found out the
truth, how could it alter matters now? Try to think that no one was to
blame--that it was the will of Heaven--and that--’

‘No! no! Hindes, I cannot think that!’ replied the old man. ‘Her death
may always be shrouded in mystery, but God never designed so young
and beautiful a creature to die so foully. There is some villainy at
the bottom of it, and I have not done with it yet, for, if ever I can
discover the real author of the mischief, I will kill him with my own
hand. I will, if he proves to be a prince of the blood royal.’