II.


A telegraphic message, early in the day, had told Mrs Walcheren the
time to expect them, and warned her to keep herself and the children
out of the way, so that, when the travellers arrived in Kensington
Gardens Square, they encountered no one but the servant who opened the
door to them, and Frederick was conveyed to his apartments, without
meeting another soul. Two rooms, adjoining one another, had been
prepared for his reception, and, as he cast himself languidly upon a
couch, he stretched out his hand to his cousin.

‘What you have done for me yesterday and to-day, Philip, I shall never
forget, and can never repay. I think you have saved my reason. God
bless you for it!’

‘To hear you say that, my dear Frederick, is more than sufficient to
repay me for any trouble I may have taken on your behalf. But now, will
you not try to take a little refreshment and rest? Have a warm bath! It
is ready for you in the next room.’

‘Yes! I should like to have a bath,’ said Frederick, with a distorted
smile; ‘although that beast Procter did seem to imagine it was
impossible that I should care to go into the water. Water is about the
only luxury I could never dispense with. And I feel so dirty,’ with a
heavy sigh.

‘All right, then, go at once,’ replied his cousin; ‘everything is
prepared for you, and don’t be afraid of meeting anybody. You are as
much alone on this floor as if you were in your own flat. No one will
come near you unless you ring, and for to-night I shall wait on you
myself.’

‘How good you are to me!’ said Frederick, as he went into the bathroom.

When he came out again, with the taint of death, as it were, washed
off him, he found a tray awaiting him, with a basin of strong soup,
and a decanter of sherry, and Philip insisted upon his taking some
refreshment before he dressed himself anew. His portmanteau had been
unstrapped, and a fresh suit of grey tweed laid out for him to put
on, but, unfortunately, it was the one which he had worn on Saturday
morning, and the sight of it made him break down weakly again, as
people will after having sustained a prolonged nervous strain.

‘My darling! my darling!’ he sobbed, ‘how little I thought, when I
left you on that fatal morning, that I should never see you again,
except--except--’

‘Come, Frederick, take your soup and drink a glass of sherry. You
needn’t be afraid of two or three glasses, for it is the oldest in my
cellar, and you know I am rather a connoisseur in wine. Never mind
dressing yourself again; there is no occasion. Your dressing-gown will
be far more suitable, and then you can lie down comfortably on the
sofa. You must be sadly in want of rest.’

‘Yes, I do feel rather tired,’ replied Frederick, as he drank several
glasses of the generous wine, and lay down as his cousin directed him;
‘and I almost think that I could sleep a little. I suppose one does go
on sleeping and eating as long as one lives, even if one _has_ lost
everything one cared for in the world,’ he added, with a wintry smile.

‘Well, then I will leave you for a little while, and see my wife and
children,’ said Philip, taking no notice of his remark. ‘Try and
compose yourself. Rest will do you more good than anything else; and I
will be with you again in an hour, sooner if you care to have me, and
will ring your bell.’

‘No, no! go to Marion,’ said Frederick, in a drowsy voice. ‘I have been
trouble enough to you already.’ And Philip, seeing that he was really
inclined to rest, left him to himself.

Of course his wife had much to hear, and he to tell, of the unhappy
scenes he had passed through, and an hour slipped away before he
went up to his cousin’s room again. He opened the door softly and
peeped in. Frederick was still lying on the couch in an attitude of
extreme exhaustion. He was breathing heavily, and catching his breath
in his sleep, sobbingly, as children do; whilst, ever and anon, a
half-muttered word, showed how grief pursued him, even in his dreams.
Philip watched him for a few moments and then withdrew, and left him to
his slumbers. Heavy, as he knew the awakening must be, Frederick needed
strength above all other things, in order to bear what lay before him.
Physically he had never been a very strong man, and his dissipated life
had further tended to undermine his constitution, so that his cousin
had feared for the effect of so violent a grief upon his health. When
he descended to his family again he found the party augmented by the
arrival of Father Tasker, who had come to hear what news Marion had
received from Dover. Philip welcomed him warmly.

‘You have come in the very nick of time,’ he exclaimed. ‘But I felt
your good angel would direct your footsteps hither. Frederick is far
more resigned than I hoped to see him, but then, he is so exhausted at
the present moment that one can hardly judge. I left him asleep on the
sofa in his room. It is the first time he has closed his eyes since
this terrible calamity overtook him--’