But Miss Bostock held her back.

‘Dear, dear Ellen,’ she said, ‘pray don’t go down stairs till John has
come to fetch you; there is so much to be done yet. Stay here quietly,
there’s a dear, till the arrangements are complete. Bradshaw promised
to meet John and tell him where they were to carry her. Don’t make a
scene in the hall. You know how he objects to any publicity.’

‘A scene in the hall, Clem,’ said Mrs Crampton, in a voice of surprise.
‘And when I am going to meet my own child and welcome her home? I
don’t understand you! Let me see, though. Isn’t she married? Didn’t
she marry that Mr Walcheren, or is it a mistake? It must be a mistake,
Clem, or why should she come back to us? My pretty Jenny, the beauty
of Hampstead, as they call her! How glad I shall be to have her home
again.’

‘Good God!’ cried Miss Bostock, in an agony of terror, ‘her brain is
going. John, John!’ she called out over the banisters, ‘come here quick
to Ellen, she is very ill!’

The mournful _cortège_ had, by this time, entered the house, and
deposited their burden on the white-draped table in the boudoir on
the ground floor. The coffin had been temporarily closed, but the
undertakers, who had met it at the station, unclosed it again, and
Jenny Walcheren lay revealed, placid and immovable, under her father’s
roof. Mr Crampton, hearing his sister-in-law’s appeal, and thinking
his wife had fainted, ran upstairs at once, but was surprised to meet
her on the landing with a strange look in her eyes, but an unmoved
countenance, as she extended her hand to him.

‘John!’ she said, in a muffled voice, ‘our Jenny has come home. I heard
her enter the house. Take me down to see her without delay.’

‘Oh, John!’ whispered the terrified Aunt Clem, ‘it will kill her. Ought
she to see her? I believe she is going out of her mind with grief.’

‘Poor soul! and well she may,’ replied Mr Crampton, as he looked into
his wife’s staring eyes. ‘But let her come; the sight can’t make her
worse than she is. Come, Ellen,’ he added, affectionately, ‘come and
see your lamb, then. God has taken her from us, Nelly, but there is no
help for it, and railing won’t bring her back again. Come and see how
peacefully she sleeps.’

He led the bereaved mother downstairs and into the boudoir as he spoke.
The servants, who had been gazing tearfully on the remains of their
young mistress, withdrew respectfully, as they saw the approach of
their employers; and, as they entered the room, Mr Crampton closed the
door behind them. The most expensive coffins that Dover could produce
had been procured to convey poor Jenny’s remains to Hampstead, and
there she lay in a white satin-lined shell, enclosed in a polished oak
sarcophagus, heavily clamped and ornamented with brass. Mrs Crampton
had had her Jenny before her mental eyes all day, dead indeed, but
plump and filled-out as when she had parted with her. She was prepared
to see a corpse, but a corpse that was only a marble likeness of her
child, and when her husband reverently and solemnly lifted the cambric
cloth that hid the features of the deceased, and she perceived a
little, shrunken and fallen-in body with a pallid face, looking half
the size it used to be, and flattened hands with purple nails and
palms, she drew one gasping breath, and gave a scream that echoed and
re-echoed through the mansion.

‘_That_ my Jenny?’ she exclaimed; ‘_that_ my child--my daughter? Oh,
God! be merciful, be merciful!’ and dropped upon the floor in a dead
faint.

Miss Bostock, who was sobbing at the sad sight before her as if her
heart would break, flung herself down in terror beside her prostrate
sister.

‘John, John,’ she cried, ‘it has killed her. I told you it would.’

‘Don’t say that, Clem,’ exclaimed the unhappy man, ‘for, if I lose her
as well, I shall have nothing left to live for. Go and send William for
Dr Sewell at once.’

‘Where is Mr Hindes?’ said Miss Bostock. ‘Did he not travel with you?’

‘Yes, but he would not enter the Cedars. There was no need, and he
feared to intrude on our sorrow at this sad home-coming. But he did
everything for me whilst at Dover, and worked night and day in my
behalf to save me trouble. I can never repay him for all his goodness.
But send for Sewell, Clem, and tell Bradshaw to come here and help me
carry poor Nelly to her room. She must not come back to her senses
here.’

Mrs Bradshaw, who was the house-keeper, appearing at that moment, they
lifted the poor mother between them and conveyed her upstairs, and,
when she came to herself again and remembered what had occurred, a
violent burst of weeping relieved her overcharged brain and rendered
her grief more natural, and, consequently, less acute.