‘I don’t know,’ said Frederick, wearily; ‘but I did.’

‘Well, when you came back at three o’clock you found your wife was
gone?’

‘I did.’

‘Was it not rather strange, considering that you had gone to the beach,
that she did not go to the beach also, in order to find you?’

‘At first I thought she must have done so, but I searched the beach and
the town, and, finally, the cliffs, without finding any trace of her.’

‘And then you returned to the hotel! At what time might that have been?’

‘I am not sure. At about five, or half-past, I think.’

‘With the exception, then, of a run home for a few minutes, you were
absent from the Castle Warden from half-past eleven to half-past
five--six hours? And all that time you were bathing or looking for your
wife?’

‘I have already told you so,’ answered Frederick.

‘Who saw you during that time, Mr Walcheren? What witnesses can you
bring forward to testify that it was spent as you tell us?’

‘Witnesses!’ reiterated Frederick, with a stare. ‘How can I bring
witnesses from a place where I am utterly unknown? I have never been
in Dover to stay a night before now. Nobody in the town knows me. I
have not spoken to an individual, excepting a young man who accosted
me whilst swimming, and a girl whom I asked if she had seen--had
seen--my--my--wife.’

‘That is unfortunate,’ remarked the coroner, drily. ‘Now, Mr Walcheren,
am I right in supposing that your marriage was not conducted very
regularly--that it was undertaken, in fact, entirely against, and in
opposition to, the wishes of the parents of the deceased?’

‘I don’t know what the devil business that is of yours!’ exclaimed
Frederick, roused from his lethargic condition by the impertinence of
the question.

‘Everything is my business, sir, in the pursuit of my duty, and, if you
address me again in that manner, I shall commit you for contempt of
court. I understand, further, that not only was your marriage with the
deceased an irregular one, but that you took a false oath in order to
procure a licence for it, by stating the deceased to be of age, when
she wanted a year of that time.’

‘I did, if you will have it so!’ said the young man, sullenly.

‘Are you aware, Mr Walcheren, that in consequence of your behaviour in
the matter, your father-in-law, Mr Crampton, altered his will and cut
his daughter’s name out of it?’

‘Of course I knew it.’

‘Who told you of it?’

‘I forget. My wife, I suppose!’

‘Mr Crampton never informed you of the fact himself?’

‘Not that I remember.’

‘You did not hear of it, in fact, until after your unfortunate marriage
had taken place beyond recall. Can you deny it, sir?’

‘I don’t know if I did or did not. I cannot remember. My head is so
dazed by the events that have taken place since that I cannot trust my
memory in anything.’

‘Perhaps I can jog it for you. You took a false oath in order to enable
you to marry the deceased, whom you believed to be an heiress, and it
was not until you had brought her down here that you found out your
mistake. Your wife told you of the fact, and you probably had a few
words on the matter, before you left her so suddenly in the hotel.’

‘It’s a lie!’ cried Frederick vehemently, as he sprang up from his
chair, an action which caused the coroner to dodge behind two of the
jury in case his witness might prove dangerous. ‘It’s a lie, I tell
you, we never had a word of misunderstanding between us, and if you
dare to mention her in that way to me again, I will knock your dirty
head against the wall for you.’

He would have sprung at the coroner in reality, if his cousin had not
restrained him.

‘Frederick! Frederick! for _her_ sake, restrain yourself. You would not
mix up her name or memory with a low row.’