‘Oh! but Mr Walcheren could never look on you as a stranger,’
interposed Mrs Hindes, ‘he must know how very intimate you are with
the family and that you have known dear Jenny almost since she was
born.’

‘Not quite that, Hannah,’ said her husband, wincing, for he did not
like to be reminded that he was ‘getting on,’ ‘but long enough, at
all events, to act as her father’s ambassador. Anyhow, I thought he
would resent my speaking to him, and perhaps cause a bit of a scandal;
but, to my surprise, he took it so quietly and so much as a matter of
course, that I begin to think he was never in earnest, and was rather
glad than otherwise, of an opportunity to withdraw without dishonour.’

‘Then he must be a scoundrel!’ replied Mrs Hindes, with unusual
vehemence for her gentle nature, ‘for I am witness that he behaved to
dear Jenny just as if he were in earnest. I have been with them often,
_you_ know, Henry, when there has been no one else by, and if ever a
man pretended to be in love with a woman, Mr Walcheren did!’

‘Anyone would “spoon” a little, with such a pretty girl, if she gave
him the opportunity, my dear,’ replied Mr Hindes, ‘and our dear Jenny
is a bit of a flirt, you must allow that. I wouldn’t trust her with a
grandfather, if I valued his peace of mind.’

‘I don’t know what you mean by “spoon,”’ said Mrs Hindes, who professed
to understand no modern slang, ‘but he looked at her and spoke to her
as if he loved her and wished her to love him, and, if he meant nothing
by it, all I can say is that he deserves a much worse reprimand than a
mere hint to cease his visits at the house. Why, he might have broken
darling Jenny’s heart!’

‘What do you mean?’ exclaimed her husband; ‘she doesn’t care for the
fellow!’

‘Who can say if she cares for him or not, Henry? Women don’t run about,
as a rule, telling everyone they meet of their predilections for
gentlemen who have not yet proposed for them.’

‘But, good God! do you mean to insinuate that the girl’s happiness is
likely to be affected by this business? You must be mistaken! Jenny
would never be such a fool as to risk losing all her father’s money for
the sake of the first young jackanapes who says he loves her!’

‘She may like the jackanapes better than the money, Henry. I don’t
think women stick at much where their hearts are concerned. Besides,
has not Mr Walcheren a fortune of his own?’

‘Perhaps--I don’t know--unless he has already made ducks and drakes of
it,’ replied Henry Hindes, wiping the perspiration from his forehead.
‘But Jenny has never thought of him seriously, I am sure of it! Her
father was telling me only yesterday, that her demeanour has not
changed in the least since he told her she must give him up, but is
as cheerful and lively as usual. That doesn’t look as if she was very
miserable over the loss, eh, Hannah?’

‘Perhaps she does not believe she shall lose him,’ observed his wife.

‘What do you mean by that?’

‘Nothing particular, only Jenny may derive comfort from looking
forward to the time when she will be of age and able to please
herself. It seems unnatural to me that they should give each other up
so cheerfully, and it is not Jenny’s disposition either. You seem to
forget what a self-willed little mortal she is! And Mr Walcheren is so
good-looking too. I am sure Jenny has positively raved to me about his
beauty. And where will he find such another girl? I thought she looked
more like an angel than a woman at the Bouchers’ on Wednesday. So pure
and sweet and fresh in that white dress, and with those lovely eyes of
hers shining like two stars. Don’t you think she has the very loveliest
eyes in the world, Hal?’

‘Yes! yes! very pretty, certainly; but handsome is as handsome does,
Hannah, and I should be dreadfully grieved if I thought Jenny could be
capable of wilfully deceiving her parents. It would break their hearts.
If you fancy she may be (and you women know best about each other as a
rule), tell me so, and I will warn the Cramptons. It will be my duty to
do so, for they are the oldest friends I possess.’

Mrs Hindes was just about to answer her husband’s query, when they were
both startled by the appearance of Mr Crampton coming up the drive
towards them. There was evidently something unusual about his visit. In
the first place, the old man was walking, a most unheard of exertion
on his part, and, in the second, he would, in the ordinary course of
events, have met his partner in a few minutes in the train, as this
was Saturday, when they made a point of going to the City together, in
order to pay the workmen’s wages, and set things generally right for
the ensuing week.

‘My dear Crampton! what on earth is the matter?’ cried Henry Hindes,
putting down his child, and hastening to his partner.