‘What, still awake, Henry!’ she exclaimed, seeing his eyelids quiver as
the light of her candle fell upon them; ‘are you in pain? Shall I get
you anything?’

‘No! no! I am all right! All I want is rest and quiet!’

‘Well, I will leave you! But you forgot your usual visit to the bairns
this evening. I’ve just come from the nursery. You must have infected
Wally with your wakefulness, for I found him sitting up in bed and
crying for his dada.’

‘Wally wants me!’ exclaimed Hindes, springing out of bed; ‘give me my
dressing-gown. I will go to him!’

‘He is quiet now, my dear. You need not disturb yourself,’ said Hannah.

But her husband was already out of the room and on his way up to the
nursery.

‘My Wally, my Wally,’ he thought, as he sat with the little boy closely
folded in his arms, ‘if anything should happen to him! If God should be
revenged on me, by taking my child--I couldn’t bear it! I couldn’t; it
would kill me!’

Then he remembered that his friends had more than once said the same
thing in his presence, and Jenny seemed to be standing on the opposite
side of the carved cot, and whispering, ‘As you killed me! as you
killed me!’ and he laid little Wally hastily down again.

‘Dada’s boy will go to sleep now,’ he said to him, with a kiss.

But Master Wally liked better lying in his father’s arms, and was quite
cunning enough to know how to get his own way.

‘No; Wally wants dada,’ he replied fretfully, and but half-awake.
‘Wicked peoples come out of corners and frighten poor Wally.’

‘Wicked peoples! What do you mean, Wally?’ demanded Hindes, the
perspiration breaking out immediately upon his face with apprehension.
‘There is no one here to frighten my Wally! Only Elsie and Laurie
sleeping like good little girls in their beds, and nursie in the next
room, with the door wide open.’

‘Oh, yes; there is,’ replied the little boy, oracularly; ‘peoples with
black faces and white faces, and ladies with ribbons--’

‘Good God!’ exclaimed his father, with unnecessary fervour, ‘_what_
ladies, Wally? Not a pretty lady, with curling hair--’

‘Oh, yes,’ cried the child, delighted to have found a theme to build
his fables on; a ‘boo-ful young lady with long hair, just like Jenny
that used to love me and bring me sugar plums. Dada, where is my Jenny?
She hasn’t been to see Wally for a long, long time.’

So he was babbling on in his childish ignorance and cunning combined,
when Hindes suddenly left his side and called the nurse from the
adjoining room.

‘Rosa, you must get up and attend to Master Wally. He is very restless
to-night, and cannot sleep. Come at once.’ And then, with a hasty kiss
to the child, he said, ‘Nurse is coming, darling. She will stay with
you. Dada must go now,’ and bolted from the nursery.

Was it possible that Jenny had appeared to the boy? Would her coming
portend good or evil? Surely she could never have the heart to harm the
little child, on whom all his hopes were set. ‘As you harmed me! as you
harmed me!’ he seemed to hear whispered through the darkness.

Had the man been in his sober senses, he would have recalled how
many times Master Wally had invented the most marvellous stories of
things which he declared he had heard and seen, in order to detain his
parents by his side--things which, they both knew, existed only in
their little son’s imagination. But to-night the childish fibs assumed
gigantic proportions in the eyes of his craven-hearted father. He lay
in his own bed trembling, as he recalled how fond Jenny had always
seemed of Wally above the other children--how often she spent her money
on toys for him--and how eagerly the little fellow used to welcome her
appearance. Was it true she had visited his bedside, and had she come
in love or anger?

He found it more and more impossible to sleep after this exciting
incident, so he crept out of bed softly, that his wife should not hear
him, and took a dose of the morphia which he had used before for the
same purpose. He wished, as he drank it, that he had the courage to
take the whole contents of the bottle, and so end his perplexities and
regrets at once. But he had _not_ the courage for that. Life was not
yet a sufficiently heavy burden to him. The world had condoned his
offence, and there were, doubtless, many years of peace and prosperity
before him. And, for the sake of Wally and the others, it was his duty
to live on and struggle to forget. So he only took a rather full dose
of the narcotic, and, after many moans and groans and restless turnings
and tossings on his bed, nature succumbed to its influence and he fell
asleep.