Here Mrs Berry’s control took flight, and she yawned once or twice and
opened her eyes.

‘Have I been asleep?’ she said, as she met her daughter’s startled gaze.

‘Yes, mother,’ replied Rhoda, who was much excited, ‘and you have been
telling me the most extraordinary things.’

‘Who was it?’ demanded Mrs Berry. ‘Paul, or Daisy?’

‘I don’t know,’ said the girl, in a bewildered manner; ‘I never asked.
But they said--I mean, you said--that is, whoever it was, said, that
Fred is in great danger of some kind, and I must go up to London and
warn him to be careful. And, his wife is dead--you were right--and they
said something I couldn’t understand, about someone being pushed over
somewhere. And they described a man who is Fred’s worst friend. I don’t
know, how--but I am to warn him against him. And oh! mother, may I go
to town and see him?’ she concluded with glistening eyes.

‘I don’t half like the idea, Rhoda,’ replied Mrs Berry. ‘What should
you go thrusting yourself into this man’s way again for? He may quite
misconstrue your motives.’

The girl drew herself up proudly.

‘No, mother, he could hardly do that. I would not let him do that.
Besides, Fred is a gentleman, remember. If I go to warn him, and ask
him to consider before he takes any important step, he will know I only
do it as a friend. And his poor wife is so lately dead, too. Please,
mother, do me more justice than that.’

‘I know, child, I know; but when there has once been such intimacy, it
is hard to break through or forget it. However, if the controls urge
you to go, go you must. Do you know where Mr Walcheren is now?’

‘No, but I know his flat in Nevern Mansions, and, doubtless, I can find
out his present address there.’

‘I won’t say anything for it, nor against it, Rhoda, but you mustn’t
take the child. I won’t have my daughter calling at a gentleman’s house
with a baby in her arms. Remember who your dear father was, and don’t
make him turn in his grave, poor man.’

‘No, no, mother!’ replied Rhoda, as if such a feat were possible; ‘but
I’m afraid it will be such a trouble to you if I leave baby behind me.’

‘You mean you think I’ll smack the little crow as soon as your back is
turned. No, my girl, I’m not quite such a brute as that, though the
sight of the little rascal does make me swear sometimes. But it’s only
for your sake, Rhoda; I’ve no spite against the poor, innocent baby.
After all, isn’t he yours before anyone else’s, and aren’t you the
only one I ever had to call my own? No, my dear, whatever happens,
we’ll stick to the little crow, you and I, and bring him up between us,
and be mother and father both to him.’

And so saying, Mrs Berry lifted her little grandson from his cot and
held him to her heart.

‘Oh, mother, mother, when you talk like that, you do make me feel so
happy,’ exclaimed poor Rhoda, as she embraced Mrs Berry; ‘indeed, I
know what a trouble and a shame I’ve been to you, and baby too, but I
can’t help loving him, mother, never mind what he is. And you needn’t
be afraid I’ll say anything to Fred to remind him of his obligations to
me. I’m much too proud for that. Only, if he is in danger, and I can
warn him, I feel it’s my duty to do so; but if I find it’s a mistake,
and the lady is living still, I shall come straight away again, without
seeing him.’

‘It’s no mistake, Rhoda; she’s gone, sure enough, but I’ve no idea what
danger Mr Walcheren can be in, unless he’s got into another scrape.’

Rhoda reddened like a rose.

‘Oh! no, mother, indeed; it’s something to do with men. The controls
said so. It’s all very misty to me, but one thing’s clear--that I’m to
go and see him, and my visit is to do him good. I sha’n’t be more than
three or four hours gone, mother, and I’m sure baby will be good with
you for that time.’

So, the following day, the injured girl set forth, with her heart full
of nothing but love and concern for the man who had ruined her good
name, and an earnest desire to return him good for evil. How some women
can forgive! How they revel in forgiving! They seem always ready to
take their betrayers and traducers back into their loving arms, as a
mother receives her child, at the first note of repentance.

Rhoda would have suffered very keenly at any other time on re-visiting
London. Here it was that she had dreamed such delicious dreams, and
woke up to find them delusions! Here it was that she had been publicly
dishonoured and disgraced, and told to go home to her mother, and
receive her reproaches, alone, friendless, and without protection!