Not a word of her marriage--not a mention of Frederick Walcheren’s
name--only those words and quotations, which, to those who knew the
circumstances of the case, revealed but too plainly what the friends
of the dead girl thought about her mysterious death. To the guilty
conscience of Henry Hindes, it was almost as if the monument cried out
to the whole world to come and read how _he_ had thrown the daughter
over the cliff, and killed her father into the bargain. It terrified
and alarmed him. He would have liked to have rooted it all up again.
But he knew it must stand there for ever--for centuries, perhaps,
after his own death, an enduring testimony to his shame and remorse
and disgrace. And it was Jenny--Jenny, whom he loved, who lay there,
condemning him! The unhappy man sunk down on his knees before the red
granite column, and sighed forth the anguish of his soul.

‘Oh, my darling! my darling!’ he groaned within himself. ‘You know,
don’t you, that I never thought of the awful consequences of my hasty
act--that I never meant to harm you, that it was your unkind words
that led me on until I was no longer master of my self. You know I
didn’t want to take your father’s money--_your_ money, Jenny, and I
would give it back, with all that I possess myself, to undo the fatal
accident of that day. For it _was_ an accident, my darling--you must
know that now, and how your miserable lover is suffering for his
rashness. Oh, Jenny! if I could only think so! if I could only think
so!’

He had buried his face in his hands, and was unaware of the approach
of any one until he was roused by the voice of Frederick Walcheren
demanding indignantly,--

‘And pray, Mr Hindes, may I ask by what right I find you weeping over
my wife’s grave?’

He had come as privately as possible to see the spot where they had
laid his Jenny, intending to give himself the poor consolation of
praying above her ashes for the repose of her soul; but, to find
his intentions forestalled, and by the man he so much disliked and
distrusted, roused all the old Adam in him again. At the imperious
question, Henry Hindes also felt the fighting spirit rise in his
breast. The instinct of self-preservation made him resent the idea that
it was anything out of the way for him to be found kneeling on the
grave of his friends. He drew himself up haughtily and replied,--

‘I am not aware, Mr Walcheren, that this cemetery belongs exclusively
to you, or that you have any right to forbid my mourning the loss of my
friends. There are two victims beneath this stone. The father, as well
as the daughter, owes his death to your behaviour. He has only survived
her five weeks.’

‘My God!’ murmured Frederick below his breath, and then, looking at the
inscription, he added, ‘But why is _my_ name not recorded here? Why is
there no mention that she was my wife? Whom have I to thank for this
insult?’

‘The monument was designed, and the inscription written by Mr Crampton
himself, sir, before he died,’ replied Hindes.

‘I don’t believe it,’ cried Frederick, hotly. ‘And these texts! They
are a positive reflection upon me. They say as plainly as possible
that there is a doubt about the manner of my darling’s death--that she
was not killed by accident but design. Is this some of your doing, Mr
Hindes, as well as the suppression of my wife’s real name?’

‘I have already told you that the whole thing is of Mr Crampton’s
ordering. He did not believe in the legality of your marriage--that I
know. As to the texts, he had his own reasons, doubtless, for selecting
them, but he did not confide them to me.’

‘And I have told you that I do not believe you. You were in all Mr
Crampton’s confidences, and a precious bad use you made of your
knowledge. My poor girl told me as much as that. She said several times
how much she feared and suspected you. She said you were against her
in everything, that you were always persuading her father to thwart her
wishes and refuse her requests, and that she hated you for it.’

‘She--Jenny--said--she hated me, and to--you!’ exclaimed Henry Hindes.
‘It is impossible. You are deceiving me. We were the greatest friends.’

‘You may have thought so--_she_ did not. And I will thank you to speak
of my dead wife by her proper name, as Mrs Walcheren,’ cried Frederick,
in a fury. ‘You should never have been allowed to call her by her
Christian name, and I forbid you to do so now.’

Henry Hindes’s natural impulse would have been to retort by saying that
Mr Walcheren had no rights whatever in the matter, and he should call
his late friend by what name he chose, but his former assertion was
still rankling in his memory.

‘Jenny said she hated me,’ he murmured to himself, ‘and to _him_! It
was not on the impulse of the moment, then, as I hoped--as I have
believed. She meant it--good heavens!--she meant it, and I--I loved
her so.’