‘Come out--come out,’ he echoed, ‘how can it come out, unless you
betray me?’

‘You need not be afraid of that, but God has His own ways of working.
If it is His will to reveal it, no efforts of ours will prevent it.
But the more persons you have in the house, the more risk you run.
Who can answer for what servants and children overhear? You are so
strange sometimes, even in the middle of the day, that I hardly know
what to think of you. You do not seem like yourself, or as if you had
your proper senses. You ramble at such times, and are not safe. I am
protecting instead of betraying you, by advising you not to let Arthur
bring his family to The Old Hall.’

A grey shade passed over Hindes’ features.

‘Do I talk much?’ he inquired fearfully. ‘Do I talk of _her_? What do
you do at such times, Hannah? How do you keep the servants out?’

She crossed the room then to the sofa where he lay, and sitting down
beside him, took his head and laid it on her bosom. As he felt the warm
touch, he clung to her, as a child clings to its mother in the dark.

‘Don’t be afraid, dear,’ she said softly. ‘Neither servants nor friends
shall gain access to you at such times. I guard you too well for that.
Should you be downstairs, I take you to your bedroom; if the fit comes
on whilst you are in your own room, I lock the door. Have no fear on
that score. I will never leave you whilst you are true to yourself.’

He sunk his face lower and lower in her bosom, and kissed her arm and
her shoulder and any part of her that came within his reach.

‘Don’t leave me, don’t leave me,’ he murmured, ‘my only hope is in you.’

‘But, Henry,’ said Hannah, thinking this a favourable opportunity for
remonstrance, ‘are you not taking too much morphia, or brandy, or
something, for your health? You must be careful, or you will circumvent
the object you have in view.’

‘I must take it, Hannah! _I must!_ I have such dreadful dreams without
it. I cannot sleep, or think, or act. It is my salvation. You mustn’t
take it from me.’

‘No! no! I had no thought of that, and if you suffer from neuralgia, I
do not see how you could go through your daily work without some sort
of remedy. Only morphia is dangerous if taken in too large quantities,
and you mustn’t cloud your active brain, or where will the business be?’

‘How I _hate_ the business,’ he said. ‘Hannah, we have more than enough
for our need. Couldn’t we go away together somewhere; all together,
and let me begin a new life? Out in Australia, or New Zealand, in a
purer air, you would trust me with the children, wouldn’t you? I will
be so good, darling, if you would. I will try so hard not to bring any
further disgrace upon their name, or yours. But _here_ life is killing
me. It is so full of bitter memories--bitter associations. Sometimes I
feel as if I could cry on these stones of Hampstead to cover me; I feel
so desperate. But in a newer air and amidst new scenes, perhaps--if you
will let me have the children--I may--forget.’

The tears were running fast down Hannah’s cheeks by this time. The man
she held in her arms was no longer the one she had feared and shrunk
from, and almost loathed in her contempt, for months past, but the
lover of her girlhood--the husband of her youth--the father of her
children--and her heart went out with a mighty compassion towards him,
notwithstanding his weakness and his sin.

‘Would you come with me?’ he whispered in her ear. ‘Would you try to
forget everything, but that once we loved each other very dearly?’

‘Yes! yes! I would,’ she answered, as she kissed his forehead. ‘You are
right, Harry. We ought to have thought of it before. We will leave this
country together; it is too full of hateful memories for both of us,
and see if it will please God to prosper us in another land. How soon
can we start, dear? How soon can we be ready? The sooner the better.’

‘It cannot be done in a moment,’ replied Hindes. ‘A business like
mine requires time to wind up. But I will put it in hand as soon as
possible. Yet on what plea?’

‘Your health, Henry. I am sure it is bad enough for anything. Mr
Moreton said yesterday that you looked as if you were in a decline.
Heaps of people have commented on your looks before me. I am sure they
would accept your state of health as a plea for anything.’

‘But Arthur--Arthur is coming home,’ said Hindes, with the old look of
fear.

‘I will manage Arthur’s business for you,’ returned his wife, with
decision. ‘I will write to him at once and say that we are very sorry,
but the state of your health and nerves is so bad, that we have been
obliged to send Elsie and Laura away from home, and you are quite
unequal to standing the noise of children about the house. That will be
sufficient explanation for everything. And soon, I hope, we shall be
far beyond the need of explaining our actions to anybody.’