‘But--but--’ he stammered, ‘I thought, Bloxam--I always have been told
that the evidence of a wife cannot be taken against her husband in a
court of law.’

‘I’ve heard the same, sir; but, bless you, if a woman once got hold of
a secret like that, she’d have a hundred ways of bringing the walls of
a man’s house about his ears, without meaning it. Women can’t help
gossiping. It’s their nature; and if a thing of that sort once gets
repeated, the police would soon get hold of it. I wouldn’t trust my
neck to Mrs Bloxam’s tender mercies; I know that, though she’s a good
woman, and fond of me in her way; but news leaks through women. There’s
no other name for it. It leaks through them.’

‘Do you think so?’ asked Hindes, with a shiver.

‘I’m sure of it, sir. Many a woman has been murdered for gossiping
alone. They taunt the men with the things they may have done, and
threaten to expose them, till they aggravate them into kicking or
beating them to death. Half the cases of manslaughter come through
women’s taunts. They’re not generous, as a rule.’

‘Don’t you think,’ said Hindes, putting a suppositious case, ‘that it
would have been much wiser for Rayner to have gone out to the States or
Australia, and have commenced a new life there under another name? He
appears to have plenty of money. I think, instead of making confession,
that I would sooner leave my wife and children comfortable, and fly
the country, pretend to be lost overboard, or to die on reaching my
haven--lose myself to the world, in fact, and begin life over anew. I
am sure that if I did that--’

‘You--you--if _you_ did that, Mr Henry!’ exclaimed Mr Bloxam, in a
voice of surprise.

Henry Hindes, recalled to the trip his tongue had made, changed
countenance to a kind of dull red purplish hue.

‘I--I--’ he stammered, ‘did I say _I_? I must have been dreaming! We
were talking of poor Rayner, surely. Why didn’t he take a sum of money
and go away and make a new name for himself in a new country? Did you
suppose that I was talking of myself, Bloxam? Why should I say such
things of myself? Do I look as if I had committed a--a--the thing that
Rayner did?’ And he finished up his sentence with a feeble, cackling
laugh.

‘God forbid! Mr Henry,’ responded the cashier, solemnly. ‘I knew, of
course, you were speaking of that unhappy man! Why shouldn’t he have
fled the country instead, sir? Why, because it would have been of no
use. Wherever he went he couldn’t have left his conscience behind him,
and, once that was awakened, he would have had to confess his guilt,
whether he found himself in England or Australia. He might have run
away from his wife and children, Mr Hindes, but he couldn’t have run
away from his crime. That would have followed him anywhere, even to the
ends of the earth. Poor wretch! I pity him from the bottom of my heart.
He’d better by far have given himself up to justice at once. Fancy the
life he must have been living for the last twenty years, lying down
and getting up, with the ghost of his poor murdered victim always by
his side, looking at him with his reproachful eyes, and asking him
silently what right he had to be eating and drinking and making merry,
whilst he lay in his unhallowed grave! But it was bound to come out at
last, sir. Murder always does.’

‘Always! Does it always, Bloxam?’ demanded his employer, fearfully.
‘Do you mean to say that _no_ murders have ever been successfully
concealed?’

‘Very few, sir, if any. They lie too heavy on the conscience for that.
Why, isn’t Rayner a case in point? If any have been kept dark for ever
it must be amongst Roman Catholics, for they can ease their consciences
by confession, and, if they receive absolution, they are set at rest.
They have such entire faith in the power of their priests to absolve
them from their sins. I have a friend of that religion, and it’s
wonderful how bright he seems after he’s been to confession, quite a
different creature.’

‘But if a man were to confess a murder in the confessional, the priest
would give him up to justice, surely?’ said Henry Hindes.

‘Oh, no, he wouldn’t, begging your pardon. My friend tells me that the
secrets of the confessional are inviolate. No priest would dare reveal
them, on penalty of being stripped of his cloth. What he hears there
never passes his lips again, not even to another priest.’

‘I shouldn’t like to trust him, all the same,’ said Hindes; ‘human
nature is subject to too many accidents. A priest might lose his brain
and babble everything he had heard.’

‘I fancy, Mr Henry,’ replied Bloxam, laughing, ‘that he hears so many
things, good, bad, and indifferent, that he forgets them as soon as he
has heard them. And he doesn’t know the names of half his penitents. A
Catholic may go to any confessor he likes. It is his director only that
he does not change.’