‘Well!’ ejaculated her husband, ‘you see they are coming, and mean to
share The Old Hall with us, as they did last time. Let me see! How long
is it since they were in England? Three years, isn’t it--or nearly so?
And a couple more youngsters in that time. Artie will have his hands
full before he has done.’

Still she was silent.

‘What’s the row now?’ demanded Hindes. ‘Are you going to set your back
up against their coming here? There’s plenty of room; all the more now
the girls have gone to school. The children can have the whole of the
top floor. They need not inconvenience you.’

‘Henry,’ said his wife, slowly, ‘they cannot come here!’

‘Cannot come here,’ he repeated, reddening. ‘What do you mean? Is the
house yours or mine? It’s a pretty thing when you commence to shut my
doors against my own relations. But they expect to come here, and they
must.’

‘They cannot come here,’ repeated Hannah, decidedly.

‘Why not?’ said Hindes, boldly.

She lifted her eyes and looked him full in the face.

‘Oh, you’re _there_, are you?’ he exclaimed, dropping his own. ‘You
want to make what you learnt by your eavesdropping public property.
You will prevent my brother entering my house, and make him curious
to learn the reason; cause a quarrel between us, and drive me into a
corner until I let the cat out of the bag. That’s your object, is it? A
neat way to get rid of me altogether.’

‘I want none of these things, Henry,’ she replied; ‘but you must act
honestly in this matter. You must not let your brother and his wife and
children do anything for which they may reproach you in after years.
You must think of an excuse to keep them away. They shall not take
up their residence here, to be brought in hourly contact with--to be
contaminated by association with--with--’

‘Say it out at once,’ retorted Hindes, angrily. ‘Let all the world
know what you know. Run up to the house-top and bawl it out from the
roof, that all Hampstead may hear the story of your devotion to me. Why
don’t you ring the bell and assemble the servants and tell them what a
master they are serving--a man who is not to be trusted with his own
children, nor to associate with his brother. You’ve been itching to do
it ever since that accursed night. You women can never keep a secret.
I might have been prepared for that from the beginning. But mark my
words, madam, the first moment you hint at such a thing, you go out of
my house, and never see your children more. They’re _my_ children, and
I will submit to no more of your tantrums concerning them. You only say
these things to try and show your power over me. But, after all, what
power have you? Where are your witnesses? A man cannot be convicted on
the testimony of a nightmare. It _was_ a nightmare! All these silent
accusations of yours are the outcome of your own vivid imagination. You
have no more power over me than _that_,’ snapping his fingers in her
face, ‘and I defy you to injure me--I defy you.’

He sank down exhausted in a chair after this outbreak, and shook like
an aspen. The habits he had contracted had robbed him of all physical
and moral courage. Hannah stood for a few moments in silence, until he
was in a fitter state to listen to her, and then she said,--

‘It is true that, legally speaking, I may have no power over you, nor
would I wield it if I had. But, if you show so little sorrow for what I
know to be a fact, so little consideration for Arthur and his family,
I will not stay in The Old Hall to be a partaker in it. If you cannot,
or will not, devise some plan by which you can induce your brother to
take up his quarters elsewhere, I shall leave you to entertain them
by yourself. I shall go back to my mother, and take my children with
me. The law still permits me the custody of two of them, but, if you
attempt to touch any one of the three, I will appeal to its protection,
and tell all I know in extenuation of my conduct. You must accept
this, Henry, as my ultimatum. I will _not_ remain here to receive your
brother’s family.’

Was it possible that this was Hannah--Hannah, who was renowned for her
gentleness and meekness and docility. Her face did not flush as she
spoke, nor did she show any signs of anger, but she stood facing her
husband, calm and pale, but perfectly decided. Guilt had made a coward
of him, and he turned from her shuddering, and hid his face in the sofa
cushion.

‘You want to ruin me!’ he murmured.

‘No, Henry, no. I want to make you regard your past in its true light,
and to make what amends for it you can. What if this terrible secret
should ever come out? Do you wish to involve others in your disgrace?
Would you rather be quoted as having led the life of a hypocrite, or
that of a penitent man?’