‘How lovely she is!’ sighed Miss Bostock, as an intuition of their
presence, even through her dreams, made Jenny turn restlessly and throw
herself into another becoming attitude on the other side of the bed.

‘Yes! indeed, Clem; but I’m afraid I must rouse her,’ whispered Mrs
Crampton. ‘Papa is really vexed about this business, and, if she
doesn’t see him at once, I fear he may be more so. Jenny, my darling!’
she continued, going round to the girl’s side and laying her hand
gently on her shoulder, ‘Jenny, dear love, wake up; there’s a dear!
Papa wants to see you before he goes into the city.’

‘Eh! what?’ said the girl drowsily, as she turned away, ‘it’s not time
to get up yet. I’m so sleepy.’

‘But, Jenny, love, try and rouse yourself,’ repeated her mother, rather
tremblingly, ‘your father wants you, dear. He won’t keep you long. You
need only put on a tea-gown and can come back and finish your toilet
afterwards. Come Jenny, make an effort, love, for papa won’t be denied.’

The girl opened her big hazel eyes then, and stared stupidly at her
aunt and mother.

‘You here, mamma!’ she ejaculated, ‘and Aunt Clem! What on earth is the
matter? Is the house on fire?’

‘No! no! dear, of course not, but papa wants to speak to you for a
minute before he leaves home.’

‘Then he must wait till he comes back,’ replied Jenny, as she closed
her eyes again, ‘for I’m a great deal too sleepy to see anyone. Go
away, do! mamma, and leave me alone. It’s a shame to go waking me in
this way, when you know I was dancing up to three o’clock this morning.’

‘I know, darling, I know!’ said Mrs Crampton, almost weeping, ‘and I
wouldn’t have done it for the world, only papa insisted on it, and you
know what he is when he’s set on having his way. Jenny, my dear; do try
and rouse yourself a little, for papa says if you don’t go down and see
him, he will come up here and pull you out of bed himself.’

At this intelligence, Miss Crampton did see fit to open her eyes a
little wider, and sit up in bed. Perhaps her conscience warned her what
this unusual severity on the part of her father might portend, but she
looked exceedingly cross as she did so.

‘I never heard such nonsense in all my life,’ she exclaimed, ‘what can
he have to say to me, that will not keep till dinner time? I can’t
be down for half an hour, at anyrate, so papa must wait my pleasure.
Where’s Ellen? She must come and help me dress! My goodness me, Aunt
Clem,’ she broke off suddenly, as she caught sight of that lady’s
sympathetic features regarding her wistfully from the foot of the bed,
‘don’t stand there goggling at me like a stork on one leg, or you’ll
drive me out of my senses. Go and call Ellen, do! If I’m to see papa,
someone must dress me. I don’t suppose he wants me to walk downstairs
in my night-dress, though he is in such a hurry.’

‘No! no! love, of course not!’ returned her mother, hastily. ‘Clem!
call Ellen, and tell her Jenny is going to get up. Now, darling! what
can I do to help you?’

‘Nothing,’ replied her daughter peevishly, ‘unless you will give papa
a dose of morphia to keep him quiet till I can dress myself. What _is_
all this mystery about? Why can’t you say why the old gentleman is so
desirous of my company this morning. He is not in the habit of dragging
me out of bed, after a ball, at this unearthly hour.’

‘It is nearly twelve o’clock, my dear!’ said Mrs Crampton evasively.

‘What of that? I ordered my trap to be round at four this afternoon,
and told Ellen particularly that she was not to come near me till I
rang. You know the Bouchers’ dance is on to-night, and a nice figure I
shall look at it if I do not have my sleep out first.’

‘Well, dear,’ replied her mother, soothingly, ‘you can come to bed
again, if you think fit, in the afternoon. You know _I_ wouldn’t have
disturbed you for all the world, but gentlemen are not always so
considerate. And your father insisted upon my doing so, so what could I
say?’

‘What’s the row about?’ repeated Jenny, as her maid began to brush out
and twist up her superabundant hair.

But Mrs Crampton was too discreet to say all she knew before a servant.

‘Oh! it’s nothing particular, my love, and your father had best tell
you himself. You needn’t be afraid, he loves you too dearly ever to
scold you, whatever you may do or say.’

‘Oh! I’m not afraid of the old man!’ rejoined the young lady; ‘only
he’d better not go too far with me. I can guess what all the fuss is
about, mamma, and I’ve got a will of my own, as well as he has. If
papa is going to lecture me about Mr--’