‘Poor Frederick,’ repeated the girl, gently. ‘But why should you become
a priest because of that? It will not bring your wife back to you.’

‘Not in this world, Rhoda, but in the next. I need not mind saying to
you that I have been a very bad man, and led a sinful life. You know it
only too well. My mother intended me for the service of the Church, and
educated me, up to the age of twenty, with that end in view. But, as
soon as she died and I became my own master, I left college and entered
the world, and you know the bad use I made of my time whilst there. I
have to ask your pardon, Rhoda, for the way in which I treated you.’

‘Don’t, don’t,’ said Rhoda, quickly. ‘I can’t bear it. I have not
reproached you, Frederick. Nor, in my own heart, have I blamed you.
I always spoke my mind, you know. We were very happy whilst we knew
each other, and thought we cared for each other, and if we have had to
“pay for our whistle,” let us do so bravely, and without any cant. I
have borne my share without crying out. Do the same by yours. God will
accept our secret grief and prayers quite as soon as any public display
of regret.’

‘I daresay you are right,’ replied the young man, who, however, did
not like being cut short in his protestations of repentance; ‘but to
return to what we were talking of. My godfather, Sir Frederick Ascher,
who died before I can remember him, left me all his property, coupled
with a hope that I should either enter the Church, when it would be
confiscated to its use, or, failing that, that I should leave it to the
Church at my own death, or endow some ecclesiastical building with it.
This behest I laughed at, and had no intention of obeying until my eyes
were so mercifully opened to the sins of which I had been guilty, and I
saw that the only reparation I could make to Heaven, would be to do as
my dear mother and godfather wished me, and become a priest.’

‘But how,’ demanded Rhoda, ‘will that repair the wrong you have done in
the world? It seems to me that it benefits really no one.’

‘Oh, Rhoda! you speak in ignorance,’ said Frederick Walcheren. ‘In
right of my blessed office, I shall have the privilege of offering the
Mass for the repose of the souls of those I have loved and injured,
every day. I shall live, as it were, in the sight of Heaven, and weary
it with prayers for the pardon of my own sins, and the sins of those
I have led, by my example or otherwise, into error; I shall live, I
trust, blameless, henceforth, in the eyes of God and men, so that, when
my time comes to leave the world, I may be found worthy to join my
friends and relatives, and to live in the sight of God and angels for
evermore.’

‘And could you not effect these objects just as well by living in the
world, instead of burying yourself alive?’ asked Rhoda drily.

‘I could not trust myself to do it, Rhoda. My aspirations are good, but
my flesh is frail, and the temptations of this life might prove too
strong for me.’

‘Then I don’t see much good in your repentance, Fred,’ said the girl.
‘If you are obliged to shut yourself up to prevent your sinning, your
abstinence cannot be of much value in God’s eyes. Your virtue will lie
in the four walls of your clergy house, not in yourself.’

The young man sat silent. He did not like the tone adopted by his
former friend. It was too much an echo of something which he could not
drive out of his mind, nor his heart.

‘Is this all you have to say to me, Rhoda?’ he asked after a pause.

‘No, Fred. I came up from Luton this morning expressly to see you. I
heard, through my mother--you know _how_--that you were in trouble and
danger, and I see now that both reports were true. I couldn’t think
what the danger might be! I was told that you were being entangled in
a net that would close round you, and deliver over your soul and body
into the keeping of others. I understand what they meant now! When you
have become a priest, you will no longer be a man. You will be a slave,
obliged to go here, or there, or do this or give up the other, as your
superiors choose.’

‘But it will be all for my good, Rhoda. I am not fit to look after, or
take care of, myself.’

‘Perhaps so, but I entreat of you, Fred, not to do this thing in too
great a hurry! You are not in a fit state to judge for yourself at this
moment! You are so grieved by the loss of your wife, that you have but
one wish--to give up the world and everything in it, and be left to
yourself and your own thoughts for ever. I know what the feeling is!
Do you suppose that I have not felt it also? Do you suppose that I do
not know what it is to despair of God’s existence, and to believe that
He neither sees nor hears what His unfortunate creatures are doing or
suffering?’

‘_You_, Rhoda, you? But what trouble have you had to make you despair
like this?’