Williams went back to the library where Bassett still slept. He looked
at his watch--a quarter to nine. He couldn’t understand it--what
could Rawson have got hold of on the mainland when it was as plain as
printing Mrs. Stokes was the guilty party. He started and moved to the
window; the throbbing beat of an engine came through the silence, a low
spark of light was advancing from the opposite shore.

When he heard the boat grinding against the wharf he waked Bassett.

“Rawson’s coming. And it’s nearly nine.”

Rawson came in by the window, his eyes blinking in the room’s
brightness. He came briskly, with something of theatrical effect in
his silent entrance, his purposeful walk to the desk. Bassett at once
noticed a change in him, a suggestion of enhanced forces, of faculties
recharged with energy. He tried to look stern but satisfaction shone in
his eyes and lit his long lantern-jawed face. He was like the bearer of
good tidings who would have worn the high smile of triumph if a smile
were fitting.

“Well,” said Williams, “where the devil have you been?”

“Down the coast, twenty-five miles, on roads that would have put
anything but a flivver out of commission.”

“You got something?”

“I did--this time. We’re on the right track now if I’m not much
mistaken.”

Williams gave an incredulous grunt. He did not believe in new material
and in advance placed himself in stubborn opposition:

“What did you go down the coast for?”

“To find a man called Gabriel Harvey.”

Bassett, about to sit down, stopped in surprise:

“Gabriel Harvey?-- That’s our launchman.”

“Exactly. And I had a devil of a time to find him. Down in a place
called White Beach, hidden away with friends in a shack without a
telephone.”

“But why----”

“I’ll tell you.” Rawson dropped into the desk chair, and, his elbows
on the arms, leaned forward, his eyes behind their glasses traveling
from one face to the other. “I went over there to look into Joe Tracy’s
movements. I couldn’t find any one who’d seen him come ashore and
learned that the man Gabriel who took him over, had gone to this place
White Beach for deep-sea fishing. Not being able to get hold of him I
went to the station to see if I could gather up anything. And I did.
The baggage man told me Gabriel had been there before he left for White
Beach leaving a suit-case and fishing-rod to be held till Tracy called
for them. They’re there now. I saw them.”

Williams said nothing, not ready with argument till more was divulged.
Bassett, in blank amazement, ejaculated:

“Why, that’s the most extraordinary thing----”

“Wait, Mr. Bassett,” Rawson raised a long commanding hand. “I hung
round till the evening train came in; that’s the train Tracy was to
take. I saw the conductor--it’s a small branch road and travel is light
at that hour--and he remembered his passengers, two women and a child.
Those were the only people who left Hayworth on the seven-fifteen, the
last evening train. I went back to the village and made inquiries.
Tracy had hired no vehicle at the garage or livery stable, nor had he
been seen anywhere about the place. Then I got a car and went to White
Beach. I was some time locating the old chap, but I finally ran him
down. He said he had not taken Tracy across to the mainland last night.”

Rawson dropped back in his chair. In answer to Bassett’s expression he
nodded soberly:

“Yes, it’s a pretty queer business. Gabriel said he’d told the boy to
be on time; made it clear to him that he wouldn’t wait. When Tracy was
not on the wharf he went to the house to look for him, saw his bag
and fishing-rod in the doorway and took them. No one was about and he
left--not sorry, I inferred from what he said, to give ‘the young cub’
as he called him, a lesson.”

Bassett got up:

“But it’s incomprehensible,” he exclaimed. “I can’t make head nor tail
of it. No one ever questioned that he’d gone.”

“No one said they’d seen him go but his sister,” came from Williams.