She could do nothing more and went down-stairs in the hope of seeing
Bassett. Since morning she had longed for a word with him. Through the
darkling obsession of her fears he loomed as the one loved and familiar
being in a world where she fared in solitary dread. Not that she had
any idea of telling him, the direful secret was hers alone to be
confessed later on some awful day of reckoning and retribution. But she
wanted to see him, get courage from his presence, feel the solace of
his arm about her. She was so lonely with her intolerable burden.

The living-room was empty, but listening at the hall door she heard the
murmur of men’s voices in the library. They were in conference again
and might be long. She passed out into the garden and sank down on one
of the benches. The air had grown chilly and a little wandering breeze
was abroad. It moved among the flowers and sent shivers down the great
wisteria vine trained up the house wall and ascending to the chimneys.
She looked at it, its drooping foliage; stirred by a quivering unrest,
showing the fibrous branches intertwined like ropes--an old vine such
as city dwellers seldom see. She tried to fix her attention on it,
picturing it when the blossoms hung in lilac cascades, a riot of color
from ground to roof. But her mind was like the needle in the compass,
inevitably swinging back to the same point.

There were clouds in the sky, hurrying white masses driving inland
and carrying the breath of fog. They had blotted out the sun and were
sweeping their torn edges over the blue. If they kept on it would be
dark to-night--no moon--but there was the man at the causeway.

She sat with drooped head immersed in thought, her hands thrust into
the pockets of her sweater. It was thus that Bassett found her. Life
leaped into her face at his voice and she stretched a hand toward him.

“Oh, I’ve been hoping to see you,” she breathed, already trained to a
low wariness of tone.

The words, the gesture, pierced his heart. She looked so disconsolate,
so wan, her face the pallor of ivory, her black hair always shining
smooth, pushed back from her brow in roughened strands. He had charged
himself to keep from her any knowledge of the interest in Joe, but had
he been of the loose-tongued sort that unburdened itself, the sight of
her devastated beauty would have sealed his lips.

He sat down beside her and took her hand in his. In her turn she had
been shocked by his appearance, worn, his ruddy firm-fleshed face riven
with lines.

“I thought I was never going to get a word with you,” he said. “This is
the first moment I’ve had. How are you?”

She asserted her well-being, and he studied her face with anxious eyes.

“Dear Anne,” he murmured, and lifting her hand, pressed it to his lips.
The two hands remained together, the woman’s upcurled inside the man’s
enveloping grasp.

“That faint feeling last night, I suppose that will bleach you out for
a while?”

“Oh, I’m all over that. It was a crazy thing for me to do, going down
and then knocking the lamp over. They didn’t think anything of it, did
they?”

“Anything of it? Why no, what would they think? You explained it to
them and they were satisfied with what you said. And afterward I told
Williams that he could absolutely trust your word.”

“I gave a great deal of trouble and----” Her voice was husky and she
cleared her throat. He was worried by the coldness of her hand and
sought to warm it by enclosing it more tightly in his. After a moment
she went on:

“I suppose you can’t tell me anything--anything of what they’re doing?”

“No. It’s all a mess so far--feeling about in the dark--nothing sure.”

“But they must be feeling about after some one?”

“Darling, what’s the good of talking about it? It’s only going round
and round the same subject like a squirrel in a cage. We don’t get many
minutes together and we don’t want to spoil them. Let’s try to forget
just while we’re here.”

“Forget!” she exclaimed. “Nothing would make me do that but being dead
myself.”

She leaned her head on his shoulder and drew her hand from his to clasp
it round his arm. He said nothing for a moment, perturbed by her words
and tone. He had thought of getting her away, having her moved to
Hayworth. Now he felt he must do it at once, the shadow of the tragedy
was too dark on her spirit.