BASSETT was prepared for what he had to tell. During the long wait for
the officers of the law his mind had been ranging over it, shaking
bare from unnecessary detail the chain of events that had ended in
murder. It was impossible to conceal the situation between Sybil and
the Stokeses; he could not if he had wished it and he did not wish
it. A girl had been brutally done to death, a girl innocent of any
evil intention, and his desire to bring her murderer to justice was
as strong as either Williams’ or Rawson’s. And they could get the
facts better from him than from the muddled stories of the others,
their minds clouded by prejudice and hearsay. He hoped that what he
said would be coldly unbiased, the naked truth as he knew it. That his
revelations would involve a woman whom he liked and pitied would not
induce him to withhold what ought to be known. Chivalry had no place
in this grim drama. As he had discharged his duties as director of a
theatrical company rent by passions and dissensions, he now prepared to
discharge them as the most responsible and fair-minded member of the
group.

Sitting by the desk in the library he unveiled the situation, what he
had heard, seen and knew. The men gave an unwinking attention, now and
then stopping him to plant a question. The trend of Williams’ thoughts
was soon revealed--he suspected Flora Stokes. When the matter was
threshed out he came to an open admission with the remark:

“Well, you have only one person here who had the provocation necessary
to commit murder.”

Bassett made no answer. If his duty required him to tell all he knew,
it did not require him to give his own opinions.

Rawson who was smoking, his long, loose-jointed frame slouched down in
an armchair, took his cigar from his mouth:

“Of course the woman’s the first person you’d think of. She had the
necessary provocation and the state of mind. But the way she came in
and told them--as Mr. Bassett describes it--doesn’t look to me like a
guilty person.”

“Why not?”

“Sounds too genuine, too like real excitement.”

“Don’t you think it’s natural to get excited if you’ve killed some one?”

“Yes, but not just that way.”

Williams leaned over the arm of his chair:

“You got to remember something about these people, Rawson--and it
counts big--they’re all actors.”

Bassett spoke up quickly:

“No, she wasn’t acting. You’d have known that if you’d seen her. What
she did was natural--a woman suffering from a fearful shock.”

“Couldn’t an actor put that on?”

“Yes, some could, but I’m certain she wasn’t.”

“When Stokes came into the room after the shot,” said Rawson, “how did
he behave?”

“He seemed all right. But I can’t honestly say that I noticed him much.
The light was fading and I was so irritated by the thought that some
one had been shooting that I didn’t pay any attention to him.”

“Oh, rubbish!” Williams made a rolling motion in the scoop of the big
chair. “You can’t suspect the man; he was in love with her. He didn’t
want to kill her, he wanted to keep her alive.”

“Men _do_ kill the women they love, especially when they can’t get her.”

“Yes, they do. I’ve known of such cases. But that’s impulse. This was
premeditated.” The sheriff pointed at the revolver lying on the desk.
“Sometime to-day somebody located that gun, took it for a purpose--not
to shoot sea-gulls as you thought, Mr. Bassett.”

Rawson looked at the pistol:

“Premeditation, all right. Was there anybody in the outfit who didn’t
know you’d opened that drawer and found the revolver gone?”

Bassett considered:

“Stokes didn’t know. He came in after I’d shut the drawer. I didn’t
speak of it because just as I’d got through asking him if he’d seen any
one, we heard Mrs. Stokes’ scream.”

“And _she_ didn’t, of course,” commented Williams.