She saw the possibilities of this and hung on them, left the door and
conning them over, paced about the room. Presently they could bear the
shut-in space no longer and crept through the hall to the living-room.
They stood on the threshold, subduing their breathing that no sound
might interfere with their entranced attention. The silence of the
house lay round them like an enshrouding essence. Far away the rhythm
of the waves came and went, faint and regular, like the pulsing of the
world’s heart tranquilly beating in some infinitely remote realm of
peace.

They returned to the library and, as the minutes passed and the strain
increased, stood motionless and dumb as statues, waiting, listening.
They felt as if everything but that room and their suspense had ceased
to exist, as if time had stopped and this one fearful hour was to
stretch out forever.

Then a sound from the distant reaches of the house broke it--the
descending feet of the men. Bassett pulled her away from the door,
closed it and drew her to the middle of the room.

“Will you help me?” she whispered. “Will you help me whatever happens?”

He nodded, there was no time now for words. He motioned her to sit
down, and moved back from her, listening to the steps which were
crossing the living-room, entering the hall. Were they louder than
they had been going up, were there three pair of feet where there had
been two? They stopped at the door, it opened and Rawson and Williams
entered.

Williams threw an electric torch on the desk and said to Bassett with a
sardonic grin:

“Nothing doing.”

Rawson spoke to Anne:

“You can go up-stairs, Miss Tracy. We’ll put off the rest of our talk
till to-morrow. You better try to get some rest. And kindly remember to
stay in your room. I don’t want any mistakes made about that to-night.”

She murmured words of compliance and rising with pale composure left
the library.

When the door shut on her Bassett said: “You got nothing up there at
all?”

It had been difficult to frame the question. Since they had left his
position with regard to them had undergone a horrible change. He did
not know how horrible till this first moment of encounter when he saw
them ready to meet him in his old rôle. He felt a surge of repudiation
and then heard Anne’s whisper at his ear. It drowned the call of his
conscience, was louder than the guiding voices that had heretofore
governed his life. She was fighting alone, she had begged his help and
he was her lover.

“Not a thing,” answered Rawson. “But we were at a disadvantage; not
enough light, and it’s a good-sized place. There’s a big store-room
full of junk, messed up with stuff, and one of the electric bulbs is
broken. We couldn’t go over that thoroughly, and he may have found
a cache there. We’ll comb it over to-morrow morning by daylight. Of
course he could have got out on the island--all that kitchen wing’s
kept open. He might have been lying low up there all yesterday and have
come down last night.”

“And his sister saw him.” Williams laughed with good-humored derision.
“You didn’t get anything out of her, Rawson.”

“No, I didn’t. She’s either a very smart young lady, or an entirely
innocent one. I’m not sure which. But she _did_ lead us to believe
he’d gone when he hadn’t, she _did_ come down-stairs on a pretty
fishy errand, and she _did_ forget the name of the hotel he’d gone to.
All quite possible but--well, we’ll know to-morrow.” He walked to the
window and looked out. “Dark as a pocket!” He turned to Bassett: “When
the tide’s full out could a person get across that channel except by
the causeway?”

“There are places where they might swim the stream in the middle. It’s
a deep strong current but a good swimmer could do it.”

“He might try it--he must be pretty keen about getting off here. You
know this shore-line. Suppose you go down and take up a station below
the boat-house among those juniper bushes. That’s a place a person
might use as a sheltered start for a get-away. You can’t see but you
can hear. Take Williams’ gun, and if there’s a sound, challenge, if
there’s no answer, shoot. I’ll come down with you, I want to take a
look at Patrick and I’ll stay round myself for a while.”

He stepped to the sill of the window but Williams, feeling for his
revolver, stopped him: