They went on to Stokes who was very clear and composed. He had walked
about--down the path to the pine wood and round that end of the house.
It was absolutely still and he had heard nobody. He was not sure of the
direction of the shot as he had been reading a paper at the time. Like
the rest of them he had had no suspicion of anything serious or, of
course, he would have investigated.

Everybody else was in the house. Bassett indicated their positions,
pointing them out as he explained their whereabouts.

Miss Saunders’ movements followed. She had spent the earlier part of
the evening sitting on the cliffs with Miss Tracy. Miss Tracy had left
her some time after six, Miss Saunders saying she would follow but
wanted to see the end of the sunset. No one had seen her come back but
she had come back, for shortly before seven Mrs. Cornell had noticed
her leaving the house.

Mrs. Cornell, invested with the grisly excitement of the hour, was
eager to tell what she knew. She had been standing at the window of
her room, and she saw Sybil on the path below passing the end of the
balcony. Mrs. Cornell was surprised for it was not far from supper-time
and Sybil was still in her Viola dress. She had not watched her, but
had gone back to lock the trunk. Both she and Miss Pinkney agreed
that the shot had followed soon after--about six or seven minutes they
thought.

They diverged to the place of the murder, the Point. The last person
who had been there was Shine, somewhere round six-thirty, though he
couldn’t swear to the time. He’d stayed there perhaps ten minutes,
walking round, and had then gone up to the garden. As far as he could
see the place was deserted. In answer to the question had he seen any
one on his way back, he said he had seen Mrs. Stokes walking along the
ocean bluffs and Mr. Stokes reading a paper on the balcony.

This ended the interrogations for the time being. The company was told
they might retire to their rooms. But they were to understand that they
were held on Gull Island for the present, no going off on any pretext
or holding communication with any one on the mainland. Also--and Mr.
Rawson was emphatic--once in their rooms they were to stay in them
unless sent for by him. He did not want any wandering about in the
halls or talking together.

They rose weariedly and prepared to go. Stokes helped his wife to her
feet and Bassett edged between the chairs toward Anne.

“How are you?” he murmured, for her appearance shocked him.

“All right. There’s nothing the matter with me.”

“Try to get some rest.”

“Will they want us any more to-night?”

“I don’t think so--not you anyway.”

Stokes and Flora moved toward the hall door, the woman limply hanging
on her husband’s arm. Rawson’s voice arrested them:

“Mr. and Mrs. Stokes, just wait a minute.”

Everybody stopped in mid-transit, holding their positions as if they
were standing to be photographed.

“Where is your room or rooms?”

“We’re together in a room on this floor out in the hall here opposite
the stairs.”

“I’d rather Mrs. Stokes went up to the second floor.” He turned to
Bassett, “You have space up there I suppose?”

“Space!” It came from Miss Pinkney before Bassett had time to
answer--these hirelings of the law did not realize where they were.
“We’ve put up more people here than you could get into one of those
flea-bitten hotels up your way.”

“Take her things up there. You help her.”

Flora turned stricken eyes on her husband. He said nothing but very
gently loosened her fingers on his arm. They trailed away, Miss Pinkney
stalking ahead. Mrs. Cornell and Anne made their exit by the opposite
door. Both were silent as they climbed the stairs. Mrs. Cornell’s door
opened and closed on her, and Anne fared on to hers on the side stretch
of the gallery. She looked down into the lighted room, saw Shine move
toward the entrance, heard his voice, loud and startled:

“Why, there’s some one down by the dock!”

The other men wheeled sharply, on the alert. She stopped, head bent,
listening.