“Sybil, you know it.”

“There’s only one way you can.”

“Any way.”

“Let me go.”

“Never tell--that you were here--that it wasn’t you?”

“Yes, let me stay dead. Everybody believes it, let them go on
believing. It _was_ death, my life since that night when Jim
disappeared. It wasn’t worth going on with. Now I can go to him, be
with him, there’ll be no one watching Sybil Saunders any more. Even
if I looked like myself it would be only the chance resemblance to a
murdered woman. And do I look like myself?”

She turned her face to the light, bright now with the coming of the
sun. Below the smooth sweep of hair across her forehead it was so
changed in its pallor and thinness, so bereft of its rounded curves and
delicate freshness that it was only a dim reflection of Sybil’s--the
face of a way-worn lad in whom the same blood ran.

The havoc worked by the suffering that had so transfigured it drove
like a knife to Anne’s heart. She felt the prick of tears under her
eyelids and lowered her head--Sybil gripping at her happiness with the
fierce courage of despair, and now Sybil going, breaking all ties,
going forever. For a moment she could not speak and the other, thinking
her silence meant reluctance to agree, caught at her hands, pleading,
with breathless urgence:

“They’ve accepted everything--it’s all explained and ended. Joe has
gone, dropped out of sight. Boys of his kind do that, do something
they’re ashamed of and disappear. What good would it do Stokes or
Bassett or the police to know it was Joe who was killed? It’s not lies,
it’s not being false to any one, it’s only to keep silent and let me
go. Oh, Anne, we’ve been real friends, we’ve loved each other-- Love me
enough to let me be happy.”

The rim of the sun slipped above the distant sea line and sent a ray of
brilliant light through the window. It touched their seated figures and
lay rosy on Anne’s face as she raised it.

“Go,” she said softly. “Go. I’ll never tell--I’ll keep that promise as
long as I live.”

She could stay no longer, the house would be waking soon. There was a
rapid interchange of last injunctions, information for Sybil’s safety.
To-night at low tide she would cross on the causeway. Every evidence
of her occupation would be removed and with this in mind she took
her Viola dress from its hiding-place and gave it to Anne. No one,
ransacking the top floor at Gull Island would ever find a trace of her.

At the head of the stairs they clung together for a moment--a life-long
good-by. There was no time for last words and they had no need of any.
It was too solemn a farewell for speech. They were like shipwrecked
comrades parted by tempest, Anne to find a haven, Sybil to ride forth
on unknown seas, rapt and dauntless, following her star.

That night was cloudy--great black banks passing across the heavens.
At times they broke and through serene open spaces the moon rode,
silvering the sea, turning the pools and streamlets of the channel
bed to a shining tracery. A boy’s figure that had started across the
causeway in the dark, was caught in one of these transitory gleams,
a flitting shadow on the straight bright path. It stood out in sharp
silhouette, running on the slippery stones, then clouds swept across
the moon and in the darkness it gained the shore and the sheltering
trees. Padding light-footed on the wayside grass, it skirted the edge
of the village.

Dogs scented its passage and broke out barking; the sound following its
progress till the houses were passed and the road stretched on between
quiet fields to the railway.

Some people heard the dogs--light-sleeping villagers who turned and
wondered if a tramp was about and lapsed into comfortable slumber. In
the stillness of the room where Stokes lay unconscious, drawing toward
the hour of deliverance, the barking sounded loud and insistent. The
nurse was disturbed by it and went to the window and looked out, but
Flora never heard it. Anne did and sat up in bed following it along the
edge of the village till it died on the outskirts.




_EPILOGUE_


THREE years later Bassett and Anne had a friend at dinner. He was
a writer who had just returned from a successful lecture tour in
Australia. On his way back he had ranged through the pleasant reaches
of the South Seas and had fallen under their spell--a little more
money in his pocket and for him it would be a plantation on some isle
of enchantment. Not the accessible places, they were already spoiled,
steamers had come, jazz music, and tourists in pith helmets with red
guidebooks were under your feet. It was the remoter islands, still out
of the line of travel, where a trading schooner was the sole link with
the world.