Seeing that she did not turn he pronounced her name. At that she
wheeled, lightning-quick, and came forward from beneath the deep jut of
the gallery assuming as unconcerned a manner as she could.

“Lovely evening,” she said as she advanced. “It’s been hard to come in.”

“Evidently from the length of time you stayed out there. I’ve been
waiting for you.”

It was not a propitious beginning, especially as he still stood against
the door as if intending to bar her exit.

“I’m going up-stairs to dress now.”

“There’s plenty of time. You can give me a few minutes. I’ve something
I want to say to you.”

“Oh, Aleck!” She stopped with an air of weary expostulation. “_Don’t_
say anything more. _Don’t_ begin that dreadful subject. I’m sick of it,
I loathe it and _can’t_ you see it isn’t any use?”

He went on as if he hadn’t heard her:

“I’ve been trying for days, ever since I came here. And you keep
avoiding me, always having some one with you. Now we’ll be going
to-morrow, we may not have another chance, and I must see you and tell
you”--he stopped and looked at the gallery. “Did I hear a step up
there?”

She had heard nothing and thought it odd that he should be so suddenly
cautious. Discretion had been the last quality he had heretofore shown.

“I _have_ avoided you and I’m going to continue doing it. Please move
away from the door. It’s silly to stand in front of it for I can go
round by the garden, but I’m tired and I don’t want to.”

He came forward, speaking as he advanced.

“This isn’t what you think. I’m done with that. You’ve made me
understand, you’ve got it across, Sybil. I’m not going to bother you
any more with that subject you loathe and think so dreadful. But I
can’t help loving you and wanting to help you.” She gave an exasperated
gesture and made a move to pass him. As she did so, he said: “I’ve
heard something of Jim Dallas.”

She stopped as if all animating force had been stricken out of her, a
“What?” expelled on a caught breath.

“Just before I left town I met an actor who says he saw him.”

“Are you telling me the truth?”

“Why should I lie? What do I gain by it? I swore the fellow to secrecy
and came up here to tell you and I’ve been trying----”

She broke in: “Was he sure? Where was it?”

The change in her manner would have crushed the hope in any man.
Shunning him like a leper, she now drew close and laid her hand on his
arm.

“I can’t tell you here. It’s too dangerous, too many people coming and
going.”

“It _was_ Jim?”

“It _was_. It’s quite a story, more than just seeing him. But we’ve got
to get somewhere away from all these damned doors----”

One of them opened--that into the hall behind them. They heard it and
wheeled round, faces sharp-set in defensive interrogation. It was
Flora Stokes. She rested on the threshold looking at them, and Stokes,
his senses more alert than the girl’s, withdrew his arm from her clasp.

“Oh, Flora,” he said, his voice supremely light and easy. “Were you
looking for me?”

Mrs. Stokes said no, she had come to put her book back. She walked
slowly to a table and placed her book on the corner. The room was very
still as she did this. Stokes, his hands deep in his pockets, moved
his head, following her progress as if it roused his curiosity. The
girl stood without a sound, the scene passing under her eyes with a
mirage-like unreality.

“It seems I’ve intruded,” said Mrs. Stokes, each syllable meticulously
clear and precise. “But if you want to be alone I should think you’d
have chosen another place.”

“Having chosen this is a pretty good proof we didn’t want to be alone,”
retorted her husband.