Rawson swung the desk chair round and drew the telephone to him:

“We can find out in a minute.”

They sat without moving while Rawson made the connection. As he spoke
the two men leaned forward, eagerly waiting, the girl drooped back in
her chair, her hands in her lap, her glance on the floor.

“Is there a Mr. Tracy there--Joe Tracy?” And then a period of
listening, punctuated with grunts of assent from Rawson. Then, “Mr.
Travers has gone--left on the six-fifteen this evening--I see.” A
silent stretch and a final “Thanks--that’s all I wanted. Much obliged.”
The receiver clicked into its hook, and Rawson swung the chair toward
them:

“Travers has been there waiting since last night. Tracy never showed
up. Travers had no message from him and left this evening for Moosehead
Lake.”

For a moment there was no comment. Anne raised her eyes, the sides of
the room looked a long way off and the light seemed to have intensified
to a violent glare as if she were sitting in the midst of a dazzling
illumination. The men’s faces were turned to her, glazed by the
radiance like glistening masks.

“I don’t know what to make of that,” she said, the words dropping
slowly with spaces between.

“Neither do we, Miss Tracy,” said Rawson, and leaning back, his
hands clasped over his stomach, he gazed intently at her through his
horn-rimmed glasses.

The glow increased, wrapped her round in a flame-like heat that ran
along her skin in prickling points. It shone on the lenses of Rawson’s
glasses which seemed to grow larger and come nearer, malignly glaring.

“Yes, you do,” she said and heard her voice hoarse and changed. “You’ve
made something of it already. And what you’ve made is lies--wicked
lies.”

Then she had seen it. Bassett made a step forward, but she leaped to
her feet, oblivious of him:

“You think he did it, just because you can’t find him. That’s all he’s
done, gone away. You must be crazy. What would he do it _for_? Don’t
you have to have a reason to commit murder?”

Williams was sorry for her, a pallid panting creature shaken out of her
gentle semblance by an unexpected revelation. “Come now, Miss Tracy,”
he urged. “Don’t get worked up.”

But she paid no heed, pouring out her words at Rawson who remained
without change of position, looking fixedly at her.

“They weren’t good friends. I don’t know why--I asked her but she
wouldn’t tell me. And what was it--a quarrel, a grievance? But that
wouldn’t make him want to _kill_ her!”

“I’ve told them that, Anne,” Bassett implored; “there’s no use going
over it.”

She made a motion for him to keep silent and moved nearer Rawson.

“It is strange his going away like that--I’ll admit it. But he
did strange things; and does every one always do what’s sensible
and reasonable? Because he happened to act in a way that we can’t
understand is no proof he’s a murderer. He didn’t do it, he couldn’t
have done it. And to think that he’s here! Where would he be? Haven’t
you searched the whole island? He’s gone, even if he didn’t meet Jimmy
Travers. He’s gone somewhere else.”

Rawson leaned suddenly forward and caught her by the wrist:

“What did you see last night in the living-room?”

If he had meant to surprise her he failed of his purpose. She hung back
from his grip and said with defiant emphasis:

“_I saw nothing!_”

“Are you sure it was a book you came down for?”

“It was a book, as I told you.”

“You could read a few hours after your friend was murdered?”

“I could try to read--it was better than thinking.”

“You’ve got a pretty cool head, Miss Tracy,” he added, and relinquished
her hand. She fell back in her chair as if his hold upon her had been
all that sustained her in an upright position. He rose, looking down at
her, curious and unsatisfied: