“What makes you think anything is?”

“His whole make-up--something’s wearing on him.”

She blew out a long shoot of smoke and, watching it, murmured:

“Yes, it’s out on him like a rash. He oughtn’t to have come, but the
first man they had, Sylvanus Grey, took sick and Mr. Walberg engaged
Stokes in a hurry and sent him up. It’s spoiled everything for the rest
of us. He’s crazy about Sybil if you want to know what’s the matter
with him.”

“Oh!” It came with an understanding inflection, the haggard glances
rising on Shine’s memory.

“Can’t hide it, doesn’t want to hide it. There’s no shame in him,
tracking after the girl. And it’s not as if he got any encouragement.
She can’t bear him; that’s why she has Anne Tracy out there, afraid if
she sits alone five minutes he’ll come loping up. You’d think if he
didn’t have any pride he’d have some feeling for his wife. She’s half
crazy with jealousy, burning up with it. These purple passions are all
right in books, Mr. Shine, but believe me they’re not comfortable to
live with.”

“I felt it.”

“I guess you would, it’s in the air. All of us cooped up in this place
where you can’t get off. I thought it was going to be such a nice
restful change. But lord! It’s about as restful as camping on the side
of Vesuvius. Sybil and Joe Tracy ready to fight at the drop of the hat
and Flora going round in circles and Stokes like one of those fireworks
that starts sputtering and you don’t know whether they’re going to
explode or die on you. I tell you I’ll be glad when we get out of here
to-morrow morning.”

There was a footfall in the room behind them and Mrs. Cornell turned to
see who was coming.

“Oh, Flora,” she said. “Come out and take a look at the sunset. It’s
something grand.”

The woman stepped out and stood beside them. She had changed her
costume and her narrow blue linen dress outlined her too slender
figure. Shine thought she would have been pretty if she had not looked
so worn and thin. He noticed the brightness of her dark eyes, brilliant
and quick-moving as a bird’s. There was red on her cheek-bones, a
flushed patch that was not rouge. Mrs. Cornell’s expression recurred to
him, “burning up”--the meager body, the hot high color, the dry lips
resolutely smiling, suggested inner fires.

“Yes,” she answered, “it’s a wonderful evening.”

“Take a cig.” Mrs. Cornell offered the box.

“Sit down, there’s plenty of room.” Shine moved up.

“No, I can’t sit down. There’s something about the air that makes you
restless--too stimulating maybe.” She raised her voice and called to
her husband, “Aleck, aren’t you coming in to change your clothes?”

Without moving the man called back:

“Not yet. There’s no hurry.”

She turned to Shine with a little condoning air of wifely tolerance:

“Mr. Stokes has been shut up so long in town he can’t get enough of the
fresh air.”

“He’s enjoying the scenery, too,” Shine answered, and saw her eyes
travel to the two figures on the rock.

“Oh, that of course--that’s the best part of it.” Then in a tone of
bright discovery: “Why look where Anne and Sybil are! Have they been
there long?”

“Ever since I’ve been here.” Mrs. Cornell’s voice was more than
soothing, bluffly reassuring as the voice of one who tells a child
there is no ghost. “And ever since Mr. Shine got through the pictures!
Wallowing in the beauties of nature like the rest of us.”

“Won’t you wallow, too?” Shine indicated the long unoccupied space on
the step.

She shook her head:

“I like moving about. Something in this place gets on my nerves, it’s
like being in a jail.” On a deep breath she shot out, “I hate it,” and
stepped back into the room.