That evening, alone in her parlor, Anne was thinking about him. He had
no engagement and no expectation of one, and it was not wise to leave
him alone in the flat without occupation. “Satan” and “the idle hands”
was a proverb that came to your mind in connection with Joe. She went
to the window and leaned out. The air rose from the street, breathless
and dead, the heated exhalation of walls and pavements baked all day by
the merciless sun. Passers-by moved languidly with a sound of dragging
feet. At areaways red-faced women sat limp in loose clothing, and from
open windows came the crying of tired little children. To leave Joe to
this while she was basking in the delights of Gull Island--apart from
anything he might do--it wasn’t fair. And then suddenly the expression
of her face changed and she drew in from the window--Hugh Bassett was
coming down the street.

The bell rang, she pushed the button and presently he was at the door
saying he was passing and thought he’d drop in for a minute. He was
a big thick-set man with a quiet reposeful quality unshaken even by
the heat. It was difficult to think of Bassett shaken by any exterior
accident of life, so suggestive was his whole make-up of a sustained
equilibrium, a balanced adjustment of mental and physical forces. He
had dropped in a great deal this summer and as the droppings-in became
more frequent Anne’s outside engagements became less. They always
simulated a mutual surprise, giving them time to get over that somewhat
breathless moment of meeting.

They achieved it rather better than usual to-night for their minds were
full of the same subject. Bassett had come to impart the good news
about Sybil, and Anne had seen her and heard all about it. There was a
great deal of talking to be done that was impersonal and during which
one forgot to be self-conscious. Finally when they had threshed out all
the matters of first importance Bassett said:

“Did you tell her that Walberg wanted Aleck Stokes for the Duke?”

“No, I didn’t say a word about it. What was the use? It would only have
upset her and you’d put a stop to it.”

“You can always be relied on, Anne, to do the tactful thing. Walberg
was set on it. Stokes can’t be beaten in that part and he’s at liberty.
But I wasn’t going to take any chances of her refusing, and if Stokes
was in the company I was afraid she might.”

“I don’t know whether she’d have gone that far, but it would have
spoiled everything for her and for the rest of us too. It’s all plain
sailing now except for one thing”--she stopped and then in answer
to his questioning look--“about the police. If they have her under
surveillance, as people say, what’ll they do about it up there?”

The big man shrugged:

“Camp in the village on the mainland--they certainly can’t come on the
island. We’ve special instructions about it--no one but the company
to be allowed there till the performance. Did she speak to you about
that?”

“No, she hardly ever alludes to the subject. But they _would_ keep a
watch on her, wouldn’t they?”

He nodded, frowning a little at a complication new in his experience:

“I should think so--a woman in her position. Men under sentence of
death have been unable to keep away from the girl they were in love
with. And then she may know where he is, be in communication with him.”

“Oh, I don’t think that,” Anne breathed in alarm. “She’d never take
such a risk.”

“Well, we’re her friends and we’re as much in the dark as anybody. I
only know one thing--if they try to hound her down on that island--the
first chance she’s had to recuperate and rest--I’ll--”

A slight grating noise came from the hall. Anne held up a quick
cautioning hand.

“Take care,” she murmured. “Here’s Joe.”

Joe came in, his Panama hat low on his brow. He gave no sign of
greeting till he saw Bassett, then he emitted an abrupt “Hello” and
snatched off the hat:

“Little Anne’s got a caller. Howdy, Bassett! How’s things?”

There was a jovial note in his voice, a wide grin of greeting on his
face. It was evident the sight of Bassett pleased him, and he stood
teetering back and forth on his toes and heels, looking ingratiatingly
at the visitor. He was like Anne, the same delicate features, the same
long eyebrows and the same trick of raising them till they curved high
on his forehead. But his face had an elfish, almost malign quality
lacking in hers, and the brown eyes, brilliant and hard, were set too
close to his nose. He was two years younger than she--twenty-two--but
looked older, immeasurably older, in the baser worldly knowledge which
had already set its stamp upon him.