Shine had been in the grove of pines, a growth of stunted trees filling
in a hollow. He had followed the path through it, up the slope to the
summer-house and beyond to where the bluff dropped away in a sheer
cliff to the channel. They called the place “The Point” as it projected
beyond the shore line in a rocky outthrust shoulder, gulls circling
about it, water seething below. He looked there now, let his glance
slip along the curve of headlands till it reached the two girls,
perched on a boulder like a pair of bright-plumaged birds. He was
thinking how to approach the matter in his mind, when Mrs. Cornell went
on:

“I don’t see what any one wanted to build a house here for--cut off
this way. It’s too lonesome. With the tide at the full as it is now
you can’t get ashore without a motor-boat. You know that current’s
something fierce.”

He looked down at it, its rushing corded surface purple dark:

“Looks to be some current.”

“It would carry you out and ‘Good night’ to you. Gabriel who runs the
launch told me. Set’s right out to sea someway. And the rise and fall
to it--I couldn’t tell you how many feet it is, but you’ll see for
yourself to-night if you’re awake--all the channel bare, nothing but
rocks and mud. And across the middle of it to Hayworth, a causeway.
That’s the only way you can get ashore at _low_ tide. High or low
you’re pretty well marooned. It’s seclusion all right if that’s what
you’re after.”

Shine was after information and with the talk running on tides and
causeways he saw no chance of getting it. So he tried to divert the
garrulous lady:

“That’s Miss Saunders and Miss Tracy out there looking at the sunset.”

Mrs. Cornell answered with emphasis:

“Yes, _they’re_ friends.”

“Aren’t you all?”

“Some of us knew each other before we came here,” was her cryptic
reply. Then she added pensively: “Six months ago you’d never have found
Sybil Saunders looking at a sunset. She was the _brightest_ thing!”

“Awful misfortune that what happened to her.”

She gave a derisive sound at the inadequacy of the word:

“Hah--awful! Took the heart right out of her. If you ever saw a girl in
love it was she--bound up in him. Everything ready, the wedding day
set, the trousseau made.” Tears rose in her eyes and she dove into her
tight bodice for a handkerchief. “Never to be worn, Mr. Shine--that’s
life.”

Shine gave forth sympathetic murmurs and Mrs. Cornell, dabbing at her
eyes, furnished data between the dabs:

“Two men drinking too much and then a fight, and before anybody knew,
murder! If there hadn’t been a brass candlestick near Jim Dallas’ hand
it would never have happened. Honest to God, Mr. Shine, there was
nothing evil in that young man. But the Parkinson family are camped on
his trail. The evil’s in them, if you ask me, with their rewards and
detectives.”

“I wonder if she knows where he is.”

“I guess there’s more than one wondering that,” the lady murmured.

“Terribly hard position for her if she does know--or if she doesn’t.”

Shine looked at the page’s figure on the rock. She carried the thing
stamped on her face. He had noticed it particularly where he had taken
the photographs of her in the living-room. They were time exposures
with his small camera, attempts to catch her fragile prettiness in
artistic combinations of light and shade. Once or twice the mask had
been dropped and he had seen the drooping lines, the weariness, and
something like fear on the delicate features.

For a space they smoked in silence. Round the corner of the house the
tall figure of Stokes strolled into view. He looked at the seated
girls, then turned and glanced behind him with a quick and furtive
sweep of the eyes. At the sight of them he nodded, walked down to the
wharf and dropped on a bench.

Shine lowered his voice:

“What’s the matter with him?”

Mrs. Cornell met his eyes; her own were narrowed and sharp.