The summer-house, a small, six-sided building, was covered by a thick
growth of Virginia creeper that swathed its rustic shape. In four of
its walls the vines, matted into a mantle of green, had been cut away
to form windows. Framed in these squares sea and land views were like
pictures brilliantly bright from the shaded interior. The other two
sides held the entrances, one giving on the path that descended to the
pine grove, one to its continuation to the Point. A circular seat ran
round the walls and a table in the same bark-covered wood was the only
movable piece of furniture. This was drawn up against the seat at one
side. Rawson moved it out as the other two ran exploring eyes over the
walls, the door-sills and the floor of wooden planking upon which a few
leaves were scattered.

“Here,” he cried suddenly. “What’s this?” and drew from a crevice where
the legs crossed, some scraps of a coarse gold material.

He held them up against the light of the opening--three short strands
of what might have been the gilt string used to tie Christmas packages.

“What do you know about this?” he said, offering them to Bassett’s
gaze.

Bassett looked, and Williams with craned neck and lifted brows looked
too. They were exactly of a length, broken filaments of thread attached
to the end of each.

“They’ve been torn off something,” Rawson indicated the threads,
“caught in that joint of the table legs and pulled off. Did she have
anything like this on her dress anywhere, a trimming or----”

“Fringe,” Bassett interrupted, “the fringe on her sash.”

“Ah!” Rawson could not hide his exultation. “_Now_ we’ve got something
we can get our teeth into.”

“Yes.” Bassett took the pieces and studied them in the light. “That’s
what it is. She wore a wide sash round her waist with ends that hung
down edged with gold fringe. This is a bit of it.”

“Well,” said Williams, “that’s a starter anyhow. She was in here.”

Rawson sat on the bench and drew the table into its former position:

“It not only proves she was in here, but it proves a good deal more.
This is the way she was, with the table as we found it close in front
of her. The ends of her sash would have been in contact with the table
legs. Now she jumped up quickly--do you get that? If she’d gone slow or
had time to think she’d have felt the pull and unloosed the sash--but
she sprang up, didn’t notice.” He looked from one to the other, his
lean face alight.

“Frightened,” said Bassett.

“So frightened she didn’t feel it, and moved with such force she tore
the fringe off. That scare took her up from the seat and sent her
flying through the doorway for the Point.”

“Hold on now,” said Williams. “If she was as scared as that why didn’t
she go for the house where there were people?”

“Because she was too scared to think. Some one with a pistol was on the
other side of the table.” He rose and went to the entrance facing the
Point. “And the person with the pistol shot at her from here--winged
her as she ran.” He turned to Bassett. “That’s why you saw no one when
you looked out after you first heard the shot. The murderer was in here
lying low.”

“Yes.” Bassett thought back over the moment when he had stood in the
living-room doorway. “That’s the only place he could have been or I’d
have seen him. But they wouldn’t have been any time together--couldn’t
have had a quarrel or a scene. According to Mrs. Cornell it was only
six or seven minutes after she saw Sybil go out that she heard the
shot. That would give them only two or three minutes in here.”

“Time enough to draw a gun and back it up with a few sentences. It
bears out what I’ve thought from the start--not an accidental meeting
but a date, to which the woman came unsuspecting and the other primed
to kill.”

“Then Mrs. Stokes got on to that date,” said Williams, “and broke
in on it. And there’s only one person that date could have been
with--Stokes.”

Bassett’s nerves were raw with strain and anxiety. This reiteration of
a rendezvous with Stokes maddened him:

“But it couldn’t have been. I’ve told you. I knew Miss Saunders well.
I know what she felt about the man, and besides I have the evidence
of my own eyes that she avoided him in every way she could. Make an
appointment to meet him alone! She’d as soon make an appointment with
Satan.”