The boys protested loudly. But to some extent Rosie’s pungent comment
seemed to be justified. Arthur for instance squeezed the orange juice
into his own eye. He yelled so loudly at this unexpected deluge that
Harold dropped an egg on his coat.

“There I told you!” Rosie declared scathingly. “What did you pick out
an egg to drop for, Harold, why didn’t you drop a potato?”

However pride goeth before destruction and the contemptuous Rosie was
soon caught up with; for clandestinely stealing a long sliver of ice
from the high ice box, she seized it in such a way that it slipped out
of her hand and dropped down her neck.

“Serves you right,” Arthur declared with delight. With heartless
interest they all watched her wriggles before she was able to secure
and extricate the slippery, rapidly melting sliver.

“You look as though you had had the hose squirted on you,” said Dicky.

But their supper was good. The salad--lettuce with cold peas, string
beans, tomatoes and sliced eggs--was so pretty that Maida said she
thought it ought to be used as an ornament for the center of the table.
As for the custard and orange pudding--to which the gifted Laura had
added a delicious meringue--they ate and ate.

“I never tasted anything so good in all my life,” Rosie sighed. “I wish
we’d made a bathtubful. Once I had a dream,” she went on pensively,
“where it looked as though I was going to have all the sweet things
to eat I wanted. I dreamed that when I came out in the morning to
go to school, the whole neighborhood was made of pink and white
candy--everything, houses, streets, lamp-posts. I took a big bite right
out of my fence.”

“And what happened then?” Maida asked breathlessly.

“I woke up, goose. Wouldn’t you _know_ that that was what would happen
with a whole worldful of candy to be eaten?”

After talking a while longer, they all filed into the living room;
began to look about for their books. Suddenly the telephone bell rang.
Maida was nearest. “I hope nothing else has happened,” she said as she
took off the receiver.

“I want to talk with Maida Westabrook,” came a girl’s voice over
the wire to her. Strange it was and yet it had a familiar ring; the
strangeness was its weakness and its breathlessness.

“I am Maida Westabrook.”

“Listen! I must talk quick. They will be back and stop me. I am Silva
Burle. They think I am asleep. I have tried to tell them. They won’t
listen. They think I am raving. I’m not. I’ve got my senses. My baby
sister, Nesta, is in a cave on the other side of the lake. Tyma is
away. There’s nobody to feed her. She’ll starve--”

“I found her this afternoon, Silva,” Maida interrupted. “She’s upstairs
in the Little House now--fast asleep.”

“Oh!” Silva’s voice dropped almost as though she were faint. Then
suspiciously, “Are you saying this to me because you think I’m raving?
Oh tell me the truth. I ask God to be my witness that I am telling
_you_ the truth.”

“Yes, Silva,” Maida said steadily, “I am telling you the truth. I give
you my word of honor. I went across the lake this morning. I heard the
baby crying. I followed the sound and found her. Don’t worry any more
about her. We’ll keep her here just as long as you’re ill.” She started
to add the news of Mrs. Dore’s accident, of Granny’s and Floribel’s
absence, but a sudden discreet impulse bade her not to go on. Instead
she said, “How did you happen to have the baby in that cave?”

“It’s a long story,” answered Silva weakly. “I can’t tell you now. Will
you come to see me to-morrow?”

“Yes,” Maida agreed, “in the morning.”

“You promise?” Silva’s weak voice entreated; it almost threatened.

“I cross my throat and my heart!” Unseen by Silva, Maida solemnly
performed these rituals of the pledged word.

“And you’re sure she’s all right?”

“Sure,” Maida answered. “You ought to hear her laugh and coo.”

“Ask her how often they feed her,” came from Rosie’s clear voice from
behind. Maida repeated the question.

“Four times a day--at nine; at twelve; at three and at six, and then at
night.”