XI

VISITORS


After the second Thursday, which was Floribel’s and Zeke’s day out,
came the second Saturday of the children’s stay in the Little House,
and on that Saturday all the parents came to Satuit from Charlestown
to see how their children were getting on: Mr. and Mrs. Brine, Mr. and
Mrs. Lathrop, Mr. and Mrs. Clark, Mr. and Mrs. Doyle, Mr. and Mrs.
Hale. Arthur had no mother but Mr. Duncan appeared with the rest. Mr.
Westabrook appeared at odd moments and helped entertain the guests.
The children of these parents were so excited that Maida and Dicky
lamented loudly that they had no relatives to show the Little House.
This was before the train which brought all these guests arrived.
Afterwards, they had no time to regret anything. The hospitality of
the Little House was stretched to its furthest expansion. The boys,
bunking in tents, hastily erected on the lawn, gave up their beds to
their fathers. The girls, sleeping on extra cots in the nursery, gave
up their beds to their mothers. This did not take care of the entire
company. All the rooms in the Annex were filled.

It was a two days, equally busy for hosts and guests. The children
were determined to show their parents everything and the parents were
equally determined to see everything. One instant Mr. and Mrs. Doyle
could be seen being dragged off by Molly and Timmie to view House Rock;
the next, Mr. and Mrs. Clark, herded by the twins, were being pulled in
the direction of the Fairy Ring. Laura and Rosie displayed every detail
of house and barn to their parents. Arthur took his father on two long
explorations through the woods. Betsy celebrated the arrival of Mr. and
Mrs. Hale by her first attempt to run house and the Magic Mirror, and
brought back away. She was caught half way between them in triumph, her
big eyes sparkling with the mischief which always filled them when she
was successful in accomplishing her purpose.

Perhaps though, Granny Flynn and Mrs. Dore enjoyed more than anybody
this break in their country life; for a happy smile never left Granny’s
wrinkled face, and Mrs. Dore talked to the visitors all day long.

The company left on a late Sunday afternoon train with an invitation
to come every future week-end; and it looked as though life in the
Little House would go on as usual.

However, Monday proved to be an equally exciting day as the two which
had preceded it. For when the children--Big Six and Little Six--came
back from their swim in the afternoon, they saw, lying placidly on the
lawn, the figure of a strange man--asleep or awake they could not at
first make out.

The figure decided that for them by leaping to its feet in what seemed
one athletic jerk.

“It’s Billy Potter!” shrieked Maida.

“Billy!” “Billy!” “Billy!” the others made chorus. And they raced over
to his side; threw themselves in one scrambled heap upon him. Being of
athletic build, Billy Potter sustained that shock splendidly.

Billy Potter was one of the oldest friends the Little Shop had had. He
was a reporter on a Boston paper, a great favorite with Mr. Westabrook,
whom he had many times interviewed; and a devoted friend of Maida’s
whom he called Petronilla. It was the first time the children had seen
him since Maida left for Europe.

He was rather short--Billy Potter--blue-eyed and golden-haired; the
eyes very blue and very observant; his hair closely woven into a thick
curly thatch.

The children alternately hugged and thumped him.

“Why haven’t you been here before, Billy?” Maida said, “I’ve been at
home two weeks now.”

“Only because I wasn’t in Boston,” Billy declared. “I’ve been away on
my vacation. I had to take it early this year. I couldn’t have come
over here at this moment, but that I’m on a story.”

When Billy Potter spoke of a “story,” he meant the account which he
wrote of events for his paper. “I’m on a kidnapping case,” he explained
over their heads to Mr. Westabrook. “I may be here in Satuit on and off
for a few days. And if invited, I might become a guest of this noble
establishment.”

“Oh do come, oh do, oh do!” the children entreated.

“All right,” Billy agreed, “I’m only waiting for an invitation,
Petronilla.”

“Well here it is,” said Maida.