A maid servant opened the door; but just behind appeared a white-haired
lady in a black silk and black silk mitts; a three-cornered bit of
black lace on her soft hair.

“You are Maida Westabrook,” she said smiling, “and you have come to see
our little invalid. She’s awake and waiting for you. If you will follow
me, I will take you to her.”

Maida followed Mrs. Fosdick up broad carpeted stairs and down a long
sunny hallway. At the very end, the old lady pushed open a door. Silva
was lying on a day couch, placed near a back window which overlooked
the garden. A light gayly-flowered down puff covered her. Silva looked
white but her strange amber-colored eyes seemed to hold a drop of fire.

“Good morning, Silva,” Maida said.

“Good morning,” Silva answered, but she used the words awkwardly, like
one who has not been accustomed to this morning greeting.

“I’m glad you are better,” Maida went on and then paused in a little
embarrassment. After an instant in which Silva said nothing she added,
“How did it happen?”

Mrs. Fosdick interrupted. “I am going to leave you little girls alone
to talk. I know you’ll have things to tell each other,” her kind old
eyes smiled understandingly, “that you don’t want grown-ups to hear.”

“Oh no,” Maida said involuntarily but this was only instinctive
politeness on her part. She very much desired to be alone with Silva.
Silva was apparently too honest to say anything. She waited until Mrs.
Fosdick’s footsteps were lost to hearing. Then she pulled herself
upright with a sudden jerk. “How’s Nesta?” she asked breathlessly.

“She’s all right. She slept all night long without waking once--except
when Rosie fed her at ten--and this morning she looks as sweet and
dainty as a rose-bud. Don’t worry about Nesta, Silva. She’s all right.
It’s you we’re worrying about.”

But this did not appear to interest Silva. “How did you find her?” she
demanded.

Maida told the story of her visit to the Moraine Land, not leaving out
a detail. Silva listened intently, her strange eyes unwinkingly fixed
on Maida’s face. “What time was this?” Silva asked.

Maida told her.

“Oh she only missed one feeding then,” Silva said in a tone of acute
relief. “You can just imagine,” she went on, “when I came out of the
faint enough to remember about the baby, how I felt. I tried to tell
them here about Nesta, but nobody would listen to me. They thought I
was raving and I can’t blame them for that of course. I begged them, I
screamed at them; then suddenly I thought of you--why I don’t know. But
somehow I knew I could trust you. I asked them to call you up or let me
call you up. But they wouldn’t. ‘There! There!’ they would say, ‘Lie
down and sleep! You’ll be all right in the morning.’ Oh what I went
through! I thought I was going crazy! And then I heard somebody using
the telephone in the hall. And when they left me to go down to dinner,
I crept out and called you up. Nobody heard me. They don’t know yet
that I telephoned. I told them last night that I knew you’d come this
morning.”

“It must have made you dizzy to stand up,” Maida said sympathetically.

“It did. At first I thought I couldn’t stand it. But I had to do it and
so I did. You are sure Nesta is all right?”

“_Sure!_” Maida reiterated, smiling. “But why didn’t you call up Aunt
Save?”

“She was at the Warneford Fair. They all went. Tyma went too. Aunt
Save’s telling fortunes. Tyma and I have been making baskets for a
month. He thought he could probably sell them all in three days. We
talked it all over. One of us had to go and the other to stay with the
baby and of course I was the one to stay with Nesta. Tyma won’t be back
until to-morrow.”

“But I don’t understand why Nesta was in the cave,” Maida declared in a
puzzled tone.

Silva closed her eyes for a moment and she sighed. It was a long sigh
and a weary one to come from a little girl’s lips.

“We’ve kept her there a month,” she said. “We stole her--Tyma and I.”

“_Stole_ her!” Maida echoed in a shocked tone. “Stole her! From whom?”

“From my father,” Silva answered and two big tears formed slowly in her
eyes. They hung on the end of her long lashes but they did not drop.
Maida handed Silva her handkerchief. Silva wiped the tears away. No
more came, and she went on with her story in a perfectly composed way.