“What a stroke he has!” Maida commented admiringly. “I’d give anything
if I could cut through the water like that. Why--why who’s that?”

Two heads appeared bobbing on the water at the other side of the
lake. No one of the children had seen anybody emerge from the woods.
The strangers must have come around the curve. The heads came forward
straight towards the middle of the lake. Arthur had reached his goal;
was floating placidly, his arms folded at the back of his neck.
Involuntarily, the other children stood silent and watched. Nearer the
two heads came to Arthur--nearer and nearer. One of them had thick
tossed black hair; the other lighter hair, satiny as the inside of a
nut where the sun caught it on the top of the head; wet and dark as
strings of seaweed in the neck.

“It’s Silva and Tyma Burle,” Rosie exclaimed suddenly. “Oh how they can
swim!”

The two young gypsies had drawn near enough to Arthur for the children
to measure their progress.

“I never saw a girl swim like that,” Laura said with a touch of envy.
“She swims just like a boy.”

Arthur, his ears sunk below the level of the water, had apparently
heard nothing. But now suddenly he threw himself on his side and
paddling just enough to keep afloat, watched the approaching pair in
amazement.

On the Burles came, their eyes fixed on Arthur, their expressions quite
non-committal. Arthur waited.

Suddenly a terrible thing happened! Silva threw up her hands and
screamed. Tyma, a little in advance, turned and swam to her rescue, but
once he had reached his sister’s side she caught him about the neck. It
was all over in a second. The two sank together. The children on the
jetty shrieked. Maida burst into tears. Harold started out at once for
the fatal spot. Rosie made as though to follow him.

“Don’t Rosie,” Laura said with sudden coolness. “You’ll only be in the
way.”

In the meantime, Arthur swam instantly for the spot where brother and
sister had disappeared. He dived at once; staying under the water for
what, to the frightened group on shore, seemed an incredible time. But
he came up; filled his lungs with air; dived again. For the third time
he appeared on the surface. For the third time he dived.

Suddenly many rods away on the top of the water appeared two
heads--Silva’s and Tyma’s. Simultaneously Arthur came up gasping
for air. The Burles managed to wave a hand; broke into high jeering
laughter; then swam rapidly towards the other shore. By this time,
Harold had reached Arthur’s side. Together they started after the
practical jokers but both the boys were spent with their first long
swim of the year. After a while, they turned and rejoined their friends
on the shore.

“Can you beat that?” Arthur demanded. His face had taken on the black
look that rage, with him, always developed. Rosie’s eyes darted
lightnings. Maida had stopped crying and her eyes had changed too. Not
glowering like Rosie’s, they had grown suddenly dark. Laura looked
stupefied. Dicky had turned white. Great shadows jumped out under his
eyes.

“That was the most dreadful thing I ever saw in my life,” Maida
asserted in a voice, almost a whisper. “You might have drowned, Arthur.”

“I’ll get even with them for that,” Arthur said in a quiet voice. “You
wait.”

“I don’t blame you,” Rosie declared. “I’m so mad I don’t know what I
wouldn’t do.”

“I don’t believe they’re worth taking any notice of,” Laura decided
contemptuously, “gypsies like that. Why don’t you tell their aunt,
Maida?”

“I’d like to,” Maida answered, “but I guess I won’t. I like Aunt Save
too much.”

“Anyway,” Harold pointed out, “it isn’t anything that concerns them.
It’s all between us children.”

“No, I wouldn’t want any grown people to get mixed up in this at all,”
Arthur said. “I wouldn’t say anything about it to Granny Flynn or Mrs.
Dore. It’ll only worry them and nobody’s the worse for it. We didn’t do
anything to be ashamed of anyway.”

“Ashamed of!” Rosie echoed stormily. “You were only trying to save
their lives.”