V

MORNING


The sun poured through the windows onto Maida’s bed. She stirred.
Was it a bird calling her? No. It was the phonograph. She peeped out
the window. Arthur had brought the phonograph to the opening of the
barn door. It was playing, “Bugle Calls of the American Army.” It was
reveille that she was listening to.

The door to her bed-chamber flew open and Rosie, her heavy curls
flying, her black eyes sparkling, precipitated herself across the room.
“Oh Maida!” she exclaimed. “Isn’t it wonderful? I am not _dreaming_ am
I? Ow!” as Maida pinched her. “I have been awake for I don’t know how
long, listening to the birds and everything. I have been waiting ever
so long for you to wake up. I thought you would never stir.”

“Well now that I’m awake, I’ll dress as soon as possible,” Maida
promised. “We’ve got a long day before us. Let’s go in and get Laura
up.”

Laura was still deep in slumber. Indeed she showed a marked
disinclination to awaken. Rosie charitably assisted her efforts by the
application to her face of a very wet--and a very cold--sponge. For
some reason, this action precipitated a pillow fight. In the midst
of it, the breakfast bell sounded but they paid no attention to it.
Finally Granny Flynn had to call: “Stop that running about, children,
and get dressed. Breakfast’ll be on the table in a minute.”

When the second bell rang, the boys came in from the barn and the
twelve children, Granny Flynn at one end of the table and Mrs. Dore at
the other, sat down to a breakfast of fruit, oatmeal, eggs, and all the
milk they wanted.

After breakfast, Maida said, “Now, first, I want to show the six little
children where’s the nicest place for them to play. Do the rest of you
want to come?”

The rest _did_ want to come. Perhaps Laura voiced their sentiments
when she said, “That’s a great idea, Maida. Get the little children
interested, so they won’t be forever tagging us.”

Maida led the way to the side of the house--the north. They crossed an
expanse of lawn, came to an opening in the stone wall. Beyond looked
like unbroken forest. But from the break in the wall, threading its way
through the trees, appeared a well-worn path. They followed it for a
few rods. It ended flush against a big sloping rock.

“This,” Maida said triumphantly, “is House Rock.”

The children swarmed over it.

“Isn’t it a beauty!” Rosie exclaimed.

It was a beauty--and especially for play purposes. It was big, cut up
by stratification into all levels--but low. At its highest end, it was
not three feet from the ground. Trees shaded it; bushes hedged it;
mosses padded it. No wonder it had been named House Rock; for it was a
perfect setting for those housekeeping games in which little children
so delight.

“Now, listen to me, little six,” Maida began.

But Arthur interrupted, “Why that’s a great name for them--the Little
Six. And we,” he added triumphantly, “are the Big Six.”

“Molly and Mabel and Dorothy and Betsy and Delia and Timmie,” Maida
started again, “all of you, listen! You are the Little Six. This is
your playground. There are some toys in the house; dolls and doll’s
dishes and doll’s furniture, which you can bring here to play house
with. But you are not to go far from the Rock. And when you hear the
cow-bell, you must always return to the Little House.”

“Is that all,” Laura asked eagerly, “and now can we leave the Little
Six and go exploring?”

The Little Six waited, dancing with excitement, impatient for the first
time in their lives to have the big children go.

“Not yet,” Maida responded, “just one more thing for the Little Six.”

She led the way around House Rock to its high end. From there another
well-worn path started off. The children followed her down its curving
way. Not far from House Rock, it came into a big circular enclosure;
grassy and surrounded by trees.

“What’s this, Maida?” Arthur asked.

“It’s a Fairy Ring,” Maida answered solemnly.