VII

TWILIGHT


“I think that Silva Burle was just horrid!” Rosie burst out suddenly.
“Just horrid!” she repeated with an enraged accent. “I never took such
a dislike to a girl in my life. I just simply despise her!”

The three little girls were in the rose garden. It was just after
luncheon and Granny Flynn had said they must do something in the way of
quiet exercise, before they went to swim in the Magic Mirror. They had
decided to decorate the house with flowers.

“She was rather horrid, wasn’t she?” Maida agreed absently. “So was her
brother.”

“You expect boys to have bad manners,” Laura commented scathingly, “but
a girl ought to behave herself better than that. She made me so mad I
wanted to stick my tongue out at her.”

“I wanted to box her ears,” announced Rosie fiercely.

“She seemed to take such a dislike to us--just on sight!” Maida went
on. “I don’t understand it. We didn’t do anything to her. We--”

“Why we’d never even seen her before,” Rosie interrupted in a crescendo
of irritation.

“She acted as though,” Maida went straight on, “she was afraid of us
for some reason, as though she thought we were going to do--” She
paused--“well I don’t know what,” she concluded.

“I hope we never see the disagreeable thing again,” Laura said.

“We probably will,” Maida declared. “We’ll be going to the gypsy camp
all the time, but of course she won’t come to the Little House.”

“If she does,” Rosie threatened, “I’ll tell her to go home.”

Rosie looked cross and she was cross. Ever since the return from the
gypsy camp her tempestuous brows had not smoothed out their knots. Her
eyes alternately burned and flashed and her cheeks were like red roses
on fire.

Characteristically--because she wore red whenever she could--Rosie had
gathered only the crimson roses. She held a great bunch of them now,
and she stood stripping them of their thorns. Laura’s roses were pink;
Maida’s yellow.

“I should think this would be enough,” Maida suggested in a moment.
“Let’s put them in the vases.”

“Shall we mix them all together?” Rosie asked. “One color to each room
is really prettier. Just think how lovely the living room will be with
these great red roses everywhere.”

“Rosie, you shall decide where the flowers go to-day, and the next time
Laura, and the next time me. That’s the only fair way,” Maida declared.

Indoors, Maida took them to the long closet lined with shelves, lighted
by one window and furnished with a small sink, a table and three
chairs, which she called the Flower Closet. On the shelves were vases
and bowls of all colors and sizes; some high and slender; some squatty
and low; of glass and china. For a few minutes conversation languished.
The three little girls were all busy making their selection from
these receptacles; cutting away too long stems and too heavy foliage;
removing thorns.

Rosie as usual--her movements were always as swift as
lightning--finished her work first. She came into the living room
where Maida and Laura--the result of Laura’s idea--were trying bunches
of yellow roses in low jars against bunches of pink ones in high ones.

“I wish I could get that Silva Burle out of my mind,” Rosie burst out
with a sudden return of her irritation. “I keep thinking of her and I
get so mad I’d just like to--”

“Granny says we can go down to the Pond now,” Arthur called suddenly,
popping in the door. “We boys have been lugging the three canoes down
to the Magic Mirror and believe me it’s some hot work. Granny says that
we must put on our bathing suits here to-day.”

Boys and girls raced to their rooms. In a surprisingly brief time they
were back again in bathing suits and bathing shoes; the girls with
rubber caps in brilliant colors.

“Granny says, as Dicky’s the only one that can’t swim, we must all
promise to look after him,” Arthur added warningly on their way to the
Pond.