XVIII

EXPIATION


A very quiet group of children gathered at breakfast the next morning.
Conversation was intermittent and devoted mainly to piling offers of
assistance in the housework on Granny and Mrs. Dore.

“When you have finished your own work, we’ll see,” Mrs. Dore steadily
answered all these suggestions.

The children finished their work in record time and with the utmost
care. The girls swept and dusted their chambers. They washed the
furniture, the paint and the windows. Everything was taken out of
closets and bureau-drawers, shaken and carefully put back. They shook
rugs. The boys in a frenzy of emulation followed a program equally
detailed. Having accomplished all this, the Big Six again begged for
more work and Granny and Mrs. Dore, taking pity on the penitent little
sinners, thought up all kinds of odd jobs for them to perform.

At length, Maida said, “Now we’ve done all the work we can do, there’s
one other thing I’d like to see attended to. I woke up in the middle
of the night--I don’t know what woke me--but I began at once to think
of that turtle--that poor, horrid turtle. And it suddenly came into my
head that it was a very cruel thing to put a creature in fresh water
who is accustomed to salt water. I suppose it’ll kill him in time,
won’t it?” she appealed to Arthur.

“Gee _whillikins_,” Arthur answered, “I never thought of that! Of
course he’ll die. But what are we going to do about it?”

“I thought,” Maida began very falteringly, “if you would let us,
Granny, we’d ask Zeke to drive us over to the beach and we’d take the
turtle and put him back in the water where he came from. We won’t stay
there but a moment.”

“I don’t see why you shouldn’t do that,” Mrs. Dore accorded them
thoughtfully.

“And as for me, I’ll be glad to be well rid of the craythur,” Granny
said shudderingly.

So it was settled. After luncheon, the three boys went down to the
Magic Mirror, hauled the poor awkward beast out of the water; pulled
it along the trail to the barn. They loaded it into the lunch hamper
again; stowed it in the automobile; and then Zeke drove them to the
beach.

Once there, they lifted the hamper out of the machine, removed the
cover and dumped its living contents onto the sand.

There was no question as to the turtle’s wishes in this matter. Without
an instant’s hesitation, he turned in the direction of the ocean;
and lumbered toward it over the sand--lumbered awkwardly but with a
surprising swiftness. The waves were piling in, like great ridges of
melted glass, green edged with shining, opalescent filigree. They
shattered themselves on the sand and seemed miraculously to turn into
great fans of green emerald trimmed with pearl-colored, foam lace.

The turtle struck the broken wave ... swam into it ... dove through
the next wave ... and the next ... and the next.... Suddenly they lost
sight of him.


When they returned, still unnaturally quiet, to the Little House, to
their great surprise Billy Potter came forward to meet them.

Their subdued spirits took an involuntary jump. Nevertheless they
greeted their guest in an unusually quiet way. Billy’s perceptions,
always keen, apparently leaped in an instant of calculation to the
truth. After a while, in which he devoted himself to the Little Six,
he suggested that the Big Six take a walk with him. They accepted the
invitation with alacrity and plunged into the woods.

When they were out of sight of the Little House, “Now what’s the
matter?” Billy Potter suddenly demanded.

They told him; all at once; each interrupting the other, piling
on excuses and explanations; interrupted with confessions and
self-accusals.

“We feel that we’ve treated Mr. Westabrook rottenly,” Arthur concluded.

“And we don’t know what to do to show him we’re sorry,” Rosie after a
pause added.

“That’s pretty bad,” Billy commented. “Now let’s think of some way out
of this.” He himself meditated for an interval, falling into a study so
deep that no one of the children dared interrupt it.