IX

PLANS


“Now,” Maida announced at breakfast a week later, “we’ve had all
the vacation we’re going to get--at least all that the Big Six get.
To-morrow begins our work. Father said we could plan it ourselves how
it was to be done and unless our plans were bad ones, we could keep
right on with them. Now I propose that, right after breakfast, you
boys go to the barn and make a program of your work. We girls will
stay here and make a program for ourselves. You remember what it is
you’re expected to do?” Notwithstanding protests that they remembered
everything, she recited briefly again to the boys the list of their
duties.

After breakfast, as directed, the Big Six divided. The boys proceeded
to the barn. The girls settled themselves in the big, comfortable
living-room, began to discuss the work that they were to do. Rosie, in
some inexplicable way, soon took control; was handling the situation in
the practical, efficient way that was typical of her.

“Do you know how to make a bed, Maida?” she asked.

“No,” Maida answered dolefully, “I never made one in my life. It looks
easy though.”

“It’s easy to make a bed _badly_,” Rosie said with emphasis. “How about
you Laura?”

“Well,” Laura replied slowly, “I _have_ made one.”

Rosie groaned. “I know what it will look like,” she commented. “Now I
_can_ make a bed,” she boasted. “Right after we finish this, I’ll take
you upstairs and show you both. Now, how about cooking?”

Maida looked aghast. “I never cooked anything in my life.”

“That’s what I thought,” Rosie remarked grimly. “How about cooking,
Laura?”

“I can make pop-overs, one-two-three-four cake and cup-custard,” Laura
stated proudly. “And, oh yes, fudge!”

“Is that all?” Rosie asked scornfully.

“Yes,” Laura admitted.

“Can either of you make a fire?” Rosie went on.

Two meek _noes_ were the answer.

“Well, as far as I can see,” Rosie decided, “we’ve got to begin at the
very beginning. Now I’ve been thinking this matter over and it seems
to me there’s only one fair way of doing it and that is for us to weed
the flower garden _all together_ every morning; each one of us to take
care of their own room--”

“_Her_ own room,” Maida corrected. She added roguishly, “I thought you
were beginning to feel too important, Rosie.”

“All right, smarty-cat! _Her_ own room. Then when it comes to
Floribel’s day out, we’ll take turns in planning the three meals. But
every Thursday, one of us must have the day in charge. On that day the
other two are only assistants.”

“Rosie,” Maida exclaimed, “I think you are perfectly wonderful! That
seems to me to be absolutely all right. Don’t you think so, Laura?”

“Yes,” Laura answered equally enthusiastic, “I think it’s marvelous.”

“Well, then,” Rosie began again, “let’s begin to plan meals for this
Thursday.”

They were deep in this interesting task when the boys returned from the
barn. They compared plans.

The boys’ plan did not differ so very much from the girls’ except that,
when it came to the work in the vegetable garden they had decided to
weed in rotation. Also in rotation, they were to sprinkle garden and
tennis court nightly, to roll the tennis court daily. Each boy was to
make his own bed. There was a typewriter in the library and they spent
the next half-hour typing out these plans and making as many copies as
there were children. Then they pinned them up in their rooms.

“Say,” Arthur declared suddenly, “you girls have got to show us how to
make a bed. I suppose I could make one, after a fashion, but I never
have. I don’t know how to begin.”

“I do,” said Harold unexpectedly. “I learned how to make beds last
summer at camp. I’ll show you.”