XVII

CRESCENT MOON BEACH


It was drawing near the middle of August. And now with each sunrise,
the fun at the Little House seemed to double itself.

“I never saw such a place as this,” Rosie wailed once. “There aren’t
hours enough to do all the things you want to do every day; and not
days enough to do all you want to do every week.”

There was some justice in Rosie’s complaint. The day’s program of
swimming, tennis, croquet, bicycling, reading and games had been broken
into by the coming of the berry season. Blueberries and blackberries
were thick in the vicinity and the children enjoyed enormously eating
the fruit they had gathered.

Floribel taught the little girls how to make blueberry cake and
blackberry grunt and on their teacher’s day out, the Little House was
sure to have one of these delicacies for luncheon and another for
dinner. The Big Six tried to do everything of course; and as Laura
complained, they succeeded in doing everything badly and no one thing
very well. One day Maida appeared at the table with a radiant look of
one who has spawned an idea.

“Granny,” she said, “we haven’t had a picnic on the beach yet. Every
summer we go to the beach once at least. Can’t we go this week on
Floribel’s day out? We girls will cook the luncheon and pack it all up
nicely.”

“But the beach is pretty far away,” Mrs. Dore said warily. “How far is
it? Could you walk to it?”

“It’s between four and five miles,” Maida answered hazily. “You see
the little children could go in the motor and the rest of us--the Big
Six--could go on our bicycles.”

“But I don’t think,” Mrs. Dore said, “that I’d like you children to go
so far away without a grown person with you.”

“Yes, of course,” Maida said, “you and Granny come too.”

“But with Zeke and Floribel away,” Mrs. Dore protested, “who would
drive the automobile?”

Maida’s face fell. “Oh,” she exclaimed, “I never thought of that.”

All the faces about the table--they had grown bright in anticipation of
this new excursion--grew dark.

Zeke had already taught Arthur and Harold to run the machine, but Mr.
Westabrook’s orders against unlicensed persons driving it, were strict.
For a moment it looked as though the ocean-picnic must be given up.

“I think,” Maida faltered, “if I ask my father to lend us Botkins and
the big car, he’d do it.”

Mrs. Dore shook her head. “I wouldn’t like to have you do that, Maida,”
she said. “Your father has given us everything that he thinks necessary
for this household.” She added gratefully, “And more than any of us had
ever had in our lives before. I should certainly not like you to ask a
single thing more of him.”

Again gloom descended on the Big Six. And then hope showed her bright
face again.

“Ah’ll tell you what Ah’ll do,” Floribel, who was waiting on table,
broke in. “Zeke and Ah’ve wanted fo’ a long time to see the big ocean.
Now eff yo’ll let the lil’ children go on dat pic-a-nic, Mis’ Dore,
Zeke and Ah’ll go with them and tak’ the best of care of them.”

“Oh _would_ you, Floribel?” Rosie asked.

“Well, in that case,” Mrs. Dore decided thoughtfully, “I don’t see why
you shouldn’t all go.”

Madness at once broke out in both Sixes, Little and Big. Laura, Maida
and Rosie leaped to their feet and danced about the room. The little
children beat on the table with their spoons and the three boys
indulged in ear-splitting whistles.

The next Thursday, Floribel, Zeke, the Little Six and the lunch, packed
somehow into the machine, the Big Six on their bicycles, streaming
ahead like couriers, started off for the beach.

“Thank goodness we’ve remembered the salt this time,” Rosie said to
Arthur as they mounted their wheels, “I took care of that myself.”

It was a beautiful day, cool as it was sunny, brisk as it was warm. The
winding road led through South Satuit and then over a long stretch of
scrub-pine country, straight to the beach.