Then the road turned suddenly and for an instant it was almost as
though their speed would take them across the broad stretch of a
velvety green lawn into the blue harbor which expanded beyond. This
harbor bore here and there white-sailed boats. Not far away, a boy was
fishing from the side of a dory. There was a chorus of delighted _ohs_
and _ahs_ from the car. But their speed did not abate for a moment.

On they went and on; and soon the village was behind, far behind;
houses were drawing apart from each other. The forest was closing about
the farms, separating them.... Now the car was on the smooth hard road
again, thick tree growths on both sides.

With a contented sigh, Betsy closed her eyes and fell fast asleep.
Delia had long ago surrendered to the sand-man. Molly was trying her
best to keep awake; but it was obvious that she could not hold out
long. Timmie’s eyes were beginning to film with fatigue, but he fought
it manfully. Even the Clark twins had become silent. But the other
children were as wide-awake as when they started.

More yellow road and more yellow road--more green trees and more green
trees. In the front seat, Rosie bounced. “Oh Maida,” she called, “it
seems to me I can’t wait. Will we ever get there?”

Maida’s eyes danced. “Oh in an hour or so,” she said airily.

“An hour,” Laura groaned. “We have gone a thousand miles already.”

Even as she spoke, the motor turned smoothly, the horn emitting a long
silvery gurgle. They entered, between two massive stone posts, a long
avenue which curved away in the distance like a wide gray tape thrown
amidst the trees.

“Maida Westabrook you fibber!” Rosie exclaimed, “we’re here now!”

Maida only twinkled.

On they went. On both sides grew great trees. But, unlike the forests
that stretched away from the public roads which they had just
traversed, these woods had been freed of their underbrush. The grass
beneath them was like velvet and lying on it, as though liquid gold had
oozed or poured through the branches, shone tiny splashes and great
pools of sunlight. It looked as though the whole green earth were
caught in a golden net.

On and on! To the impatient children it seemed that they went miles.

“Oh!” Arthur Duncan exclaimed suddenly. And then, quite like a girl,
again and again, “Oh! Oh! Oh!”

The car had turned so that it looked straight down into a cleared
glade. At the end of the vista, a group of deer, dappled in white all
over their lovely, dead-leaf brown bodies, lifted their heads, and with
their great soft eyes surveyed the car. But they stared for such a
tiny fraction of a second that it scarcely seemed that the thing had
happened at all for--flash! There was a glimpse of white as they turned
tail. They vanished as instantly, as completely, as miraculously as
though they were ghosts.

“Oh _Maida_!” Rosie exclaimed. “Deer! How wonderful! Do they belong to
your father or are they wild?”

“Those that you saw are dappled deer. Father had them brought here from
England,” Maida answered. “But once in a while we do see wild deer in
this country.”

“Oh I’d like to see some _wild_ deer,” Arthur said.

Dicky didn’t speak but his eyes were luminous. As for Harold, he was
still gasping with the surprise of it.

On they went. The road curved and rippled like a ribbon being
constantly thrown ahead of them. Suddenly they came to a great cleared
space, smoother than any plush. Botkins stopped the car. At the end
towered a huge house of white marble, with terraces. On the lawn, which
stretched between the children and the house, grew, widely-separated, a
few stately trees; wine-glass elms, oaks; copper beeches and powdered
spruces. It was very still now and, unimpeded, the setting sun was
sending great golden shafts across that stretch of plushy grass. They
struck a pool of water in a marble basin in the middle of that emerald
velvet; and through the fountain which played about it. Here ... there
... yonder ... motionless in that liquid golden light ... were white
objects....

“What are those white things?” Dicky asked curiously.

And then, one of the white objects arose, opened like a fan, spread to
a wonderful size its snow-white tail; moved in stately fashion along
the velvety-green lawn.

“Maida!” Dicky gasped. “Not--Yes they are--white peacocks!”