“I don’t,” Dicky remonstrated.

“Well you will in a week,” Maida promised.

Harold had all this time been keenly examining the ocean, the curving
line of shore.

“What’s that island off there, Maida?” he asked.

“Everybody else calls it Spectacles Island, because it’s shaped like a
pair of spectacles. But I call it Tom Tiddler’s Ground, because nobody
lives there. I don’t see why I shouldn’t call it what I want. It’s _my_
island.”

“Your island,” Rosie repeated. “Oh Maida, you lucky girl.”

Maida flushed and looked ashamed. “I mean _our_ island,” she corrected
herself.

“Well,” Rosie said in a meditative tone, “with a farmhouse in the
country, the ocean with an island in it in front of it; a forest with
deer in back of it; and a pond--Maida can you think of anything else
that we could possibly have?”

“Well there might be a volcano on the island,” Maida suggested, “a
grotto somewhere like the Blue Grotto of Capri; and then of course we
have no glaciers, geysers, hot springs, deserts or bogs--”

“Oh you goose!” Rosie interrupted. “You know we couldn’t have any of
those things.”

“We might have a cave,” Arthur said. “Are there any caves around here,
Maida?”

“Not that I know of,” Maida answered. “Now let me show you the rest of
the place. You’ve been so busy looking at the ocean that you haven’t
noticed there’s a tennis court and a croquet-ground just below.”

The five excited faces peered out of the open window down through the
tree branches and there was, indeed, a great cleared velvety lawn
with wickets and stakes at one end and a tennis court marked in white
kalsomine at the other.

“Now,” Maida said, “come into the house. Oh I forgot to tell you that I
call this tree Father Time because it’s the oldest one on the place.
It’s too bad that I named all these things years ago because you could
have had the fun of naming them too.”

“But I like all your names, Maida,” Dicky declared.

Climbing down the narrow stairs, Maida conducted them through the two
rooms of the Annex which lay between the Tree Room and the Little
House. The tiny procession marched first into the kitchen which was the
second of these rooms--a big sunny room, the walls painted a deep blue
and hanging against them great pans and platters of brass and copper.
From the kitchen, they entered the dining room; a big room also which
ran the entire width of the house all doors and windows on the western
side. A long, wide table in the center; chairs along the walls; and a
pair of mahogany sideboards facing each other from the ends--these were
its furnishings.

They passed through a door on the eastern wall.

“Now,” Maida said, “we are in the original house. This used to be the
old kitchen. Now it’s the living room. Look at the great fireplace with
the oven at one side. This big wooden shovel was used to put the pans
of bread in and to take them out. See how sweet all the old paneling
is! That’s been here from the beginning and the old H hinges and the
old butterfly hinges! And these darling little closets! And those big
old beams with the spatter work on them. Father had this great fender
built around the fireplace so that the little children couldn’t fall
into it when there’s a fire.”

“Are we going to have fires in that enormous place?” Rosie asked.

“I wish the temperature would fall to below zero,” Laura declared
recklessly.

“I should think it would take four-foot logs,” Arthur had been
examining the fireplace. Crouching down he had even walked into it;
stared up into the chimney.

“It does,” Maida informed him proudly. “Oh, there, Rosie,” she pointed
to a little triangular brass object on the hearth, “is a trivet!”

Rosie pounced on it. “It looks like a brass cricket! What’s it for?”

“To put the tea pot on, close to the fire so it will keep hot.”

Out of the living room through the northern door they came into one of
the two smaller front rooms. The walls were lined with books. And here
was a big table with a reading lamp, a desk, a few comfortable chairs.