“I told her to go back for her dolly,” Molly reiterated gravely.

As Mrs. Dore had ordered, the children scattered. They searched the
house, the Annex, the barn, the Tree House, the two gardens, and the
adjacent trails. No Betsy! By this time, Floribel and Zeke, looking
very serious, had joined in the search. Granny Flynn, obviously
frightened, was wringing her hands. Mrs. Dore’s face had turned
serious too, but she was quite mistress of herself.

“We’ll wait a few minutes,” she ordered slowly, “and then if we haven’t
found her, we’ll telephone the Big House. In the meantime, Granny,
you see that the children have their supper. The rest of you,” she
addressed the Big Six, “must go without your supper for a while. I want
you to help.”

The Big Six wanted to help of course. For a moment or two they wandered
about aimlessly--a haphazard group; with Mrs. Dore and Floribel and
Zeke trying to direct all at once. Suddenly Arthur Duncan took command
of the situation. He ran into the house and emerged with his arms full
of things; the cow-bell with which Floribel called the children to
meals and four electric flash-lights. “Laura,” he commanded, handing
her the cow-bell, “I want you to stand here at the door and ring this
bell at regular intervals. I’m going to divide the rest of you into
pairs and send you off in different directions. We’re losing time,
all bunched together like this. Now Mrs. Dore, if you and Dicky will
go to the Magic Mirror and hunt the woods there--and Floribel, you
and Rosie take the House Rock direction. Zeke, you and Harold search
in front, across the road. Maida and I’ll beat the woods back of the
house. Remember, don’t any one of you go out of hearing of the bell.
And if any of you find Betsy, come back and ring the bell hard--without
stopping.”

The four pairs scattered, north, south, east and west. For a few
moments Maida could hear the others crashing through the woods. She
caught their voices ... getting farther and farther away ... calling
“Betsy!” ... “Betsy!” ... fragments of sentences. Finally as she
and Arthur plunged deeper and deeper into the forest, she got only
broken blurred calls. At length these too died away. The silence of
the immeasurable, immemorial forest closed about her and Arthur. The
oncoming dusk seemed to be pouring like a great, gradual-growing flood
upon them.

“There isn’t any chance of our losing Betsy forever, Arthur?” Maida
asked once in a hushed voice.

“Not a chance,” Arthur answered. “If we don’t find her, your father
will. In five minutes he can get enough men together to beat these
woods. And by midnight they can cover every spot of them.”

“They are awfully big woods, Arthur,” Maida commented a little
fearfully.

“But a gang of men working systematically,” Arthur explained, “could
get through them in no time. Why the year my father and I camped out
in Maine, there was a child lost in a forest a hundred times as big as
this, but the whole village turned out and they found her in an hour.”
Arthur did not add that the child was only three. He went on. “You see,
little children can’t walk very fast. They are likely to go round in
circles any way. And they soon get tired out. We shall probably find
her asleep.”

“But if she’s fast asleep,” Maida remarked, “she can’t help us by
answering our calls.”

To this Arthur answered, “Perhaps our calls will wake her.”

In the meantime, they searched every bit of ground thoroughly. At the
foot of tree trunks, beside rocks, under bushes, Arthur thrust the rays
of his electric flash-light. At intervals, he called to Maida and at
intervals Maida called to him. It grew darker and darker.

“There, there’s the moon!” Arthur said in a relieved tone. “It’s going
to help a good deal--having a full moon.” Following his pointing
finger, Maida caught a faint, red glow through the trees. They searched
a little longer.

“Arthur, I can barely hear the bell,” Maida exclaimed suddenly.

Arthur sighed. “I was just thinking of that,” he said. “I guess we’ll
have to go back to the Little House and telephone the Big House.”

They turned and walked in the direction of the cow-bell. They were too
preoccupied with the sense of their unhappiness to talk. Once only
Maida said, “She’s one of the darlingest little girls I ever knew. If
anything happened to Betsy--And then how could we tell her mother?”

When they came out on the lawn of the Little House, they found Floribel
and Rosie sitting there. A minute later, Zeke and Harold appeared from
one direction and, after an interval, Mrs. Dore and Dicky from another.
They all had the same anxious, slightly-terrified look.