Once Rosie came home almost breathless with rage. “What do you think
has just happened, Maida?” she asked indignantly. “I was coming along
the path when I saw a little opening in the bushes. It looked so pretty
that I thought I’d cut into it. Just then I saw Silva Burle running--oh
running like _sixty_--although she had a bottle of milk under her arm.
She heard me coming and suddenly she disappeared through the bushes.
But before she got away she made--oh the horridest face at me. I was so
mad--”

“She certainly is a strange girl,” Maida remarked in a perplexed tone.
“I don’t understand why she acts so. We’ve never done anything to her.
Why should she treat us like this?”

Arthur also reported that once, early in the morning, he caught
sight of Silva Burle flying along the path ahead of him, a bundle
of--he could not tell what--under her arms. At the sound of his
footsteps--Arthur said it was exactly as though she were afraid of
something he might do--though, he added, what she expected him to do,
he couldn’t guess, she flew to cover like a rabbit; actually vanished
from his sight.

But the most disagreeable of all was Laura’s experience. Rosie
pointed out to her the little opening among the trees which had so
interested her. The next day, passing it alone, it occurred to Laura
that she would find out where it led. Like Rosie she walked through
the underbrush--but she got farther than Rosie did. Suddenly she came
against a trailing tree branch; she started to climb over it. One
foot had planted itself. She lifted the other and--splash! A pail of
water, hung on an over-hanging branch, fell on her, drenching her from
head to foot. It spoiled the gloss of her freshly-ironed muslin frock
of course, but it spoiled her temper more. Maida pondered all this
evidence, utterly perplexed. Why the Burles should have taken such a
dislike to them all she could not guess. She did not speak of it to
her father because she was afraid he might complain to Aunt Save. And
Maida did not want to make trouble for her friend. But under promise
of secrecy, she discussed the situation with Billy Potter. For once,
that astute young gentleman had no explanation of a curious social
phenomenon.

Billy Potter was coming to see them regularly now; so was Mr.
Westabrook. They both had long talks with the children, collectively
and separately.

One afternoon as they were sitting in the living room a curious
revelation occurred. Arthur was talking about the forest. It was plain
to be seen that it fascinated him beyond measure. Often he would wake
early in the morning; slip down to the Magic Mirror; canoe himself
across its dawn-swept, glossy surface to the other side; wander for an
hour or more in the woods.

“I guess I’ll have to make a forester out of you,” Mr. Westabrook said
that afternoon. “I hope you don’t stay up late at night.” His remark
was not a question, only a comment.

Arthur flushed, remained silent. Mr. Westabrook continued to look at
him. And now his look was a question.

“Twice--” Arthur faltered finally--“when the moon was full. I wanted to
see if I could come up to some of your deer.”

“Well, did you manage?” Mr. Westabrook asked.

“Only once,” Arthur answered. “If they get the smell of you--good
night! But I read in a book here in the library how to work around so’s
the wind wouldn’t carry it--and one night, I watched a group feeding
and tossing their horns nearly five minutes.”

“It’s a pretty sight,” Mr. Westabrook remarked. “I guess if I were a
boy I couldn’t resist that myself. But I want you to promise me that
you’ll make these explorations only the three nights that the moon is
full.”

Arthur promised readily.

“Oh father,” Maida begged, “couldn’t I do it too?”

Her father shook his head. “No I guess you little girls must stay in
your beds. Yes you too Dicky,” as Dicky’s lips opened automatically,
“and you Harold. Sometime perhaps but not now. Arthur is older and
bigger. He can take care of himself. Now,” he concluded quickly as if
determined to give envy no time to develop, “come out into the barn. I
hear there’s some good boxing going on here. Besides I want you to show
me how your tennis is improving.”


The Little Six continued to play near or in the house directly under
Granny Flynn’s or Mrs. Dore’s watchful eye. Occasionally they were
permitted to wade in the lake, but only when one of the grown-ups
accompanied them. For the most of their time, they were contented to
frequent Home Rock.