XXV

THE END OF SUMMER


Outside all was wind, rain, confusion and destruction. Occasionally a
bough came crashing down to earth and always the branches of the great
tree beside Maida’s window, rubbed against the house. The wind veered
and whirled. One moment the rain was coming, like a shower of bullets,
against the window of one side; the next it was lashing, like a bundle
of twigs, against the glass of another.

Inside was warmth, light, laughter and conversation. The older children
sat about the big fireplace in the living room. Rosie was on her knees
there, busily wielding a corn popper. Beside her sat Laura toasting
macaroons on the end of a long fork. Silva and Maida were bringing in
great pans of molasses candy which simply refused to cool. The boys
were fanning it in an effort to bring it to the tasting point. The
little children were running about, looking at books, or playing games,
according to their tastes, perfectly confident, as ever, that the
relentless hour of eight o’clock could be put off this one evening.
Mrs. Dore, quite herself again, was rocking Delia who had given way to
premature fatigue. In the midst of all this excitement Granny Flynn
read tranquilly from her _Lives of the Saints_.

“I can’t believe the summer is over,” Rosie exclaimed suddenly. “I
_won’t_ believe it! Oh why can’t things like this go on for ever?”

“I couldn’t believe it either,” Laura declared, “until this storm came.
The weather has been so warm up to now that I wouldn’t believe autumn
had come. But to-day and yesterday have been fallish.”

“Autumn’s here,” Silva said, “when the goldenrod and asters come.”

“I know it,” Maida agreed mournfully. “How glad I am when flowers
come and how sorry I am when they go! It makes you know that summer
is flying just to watch them disappear. If the flowers only stayed
after they came, you wouldn’t notice it so much. But they don’t. They
go--first the dandelions and then the violets; and then the daisies and
buttercups and wild roses and iris; then the elderberry and sumach; and
then the goldenrod and asters. But as soon as each one of these stops
blooming, you realize that _that_ part of the summer is gone. And as
soon as you see the red rose hips--” she twisted her hand through the
long necklace of crimson berries that she was wearing, “--then you know
that the fall has begun.”

“I never thought of that before,” Laura exclaimed. “Wouldn’t it be
perfectly beautiful if they stayed until the end of the summer, even
the dandelions? Perhaps there wouldn’t be room for them all though.”

“This storm makes me think of fall all right,” Arthur said.

“Yes, and this fire,” Dicky chimed in.

“It makes me think of _school_,” Harold declared.

Everybody groaned.

“Perhaps it’s the popcorn,” Rosie said, “and the apples. But somehow
I feel to-night just as though it were Halloween night. Oh, do you
remember the beautiful party we had at Laura’s last Halloween?”

“Do I?” Maida answered. “I should say I did. It was the first Halloween
party I ever went to. I shall remember it as long as I live. I remember
sitting in the window of the Little Shop and watching all the pumpkin
lanterns come bobbing along Primrose Court. Oh how lovely it was!”

“It doesn’t seem possible,” Rosie reiterated dreamily, although she
was vigorously shaking the popper, “that next Sunday night means
Charlestown again, and Monday morning, horrid school once more.
How shall we ever get used to being kept indoors? I shall stifle.
I shall miss everything--oh dreadfully. But the thing I shall miss
most is my lovely little room, out-of-doors. Oh no, it isn’t that,”
she contradicted herself, “the thing I shall miss most is the cave.
Everything that happens to us is like a story book; but the cave is
most like a story book of all. Oh how sorry I was when we came to the
end of it! I did so hope it would be a Mammoth Cave with a great big
river in it and fish without eyes and chambers with stalactites and
stalagmites.”

“If it had been,” Tyma Burle said shrewdly, “people would have been
coming all the time to look at it and it wouldn’t be our cave any
longer. I have enjoyed tennis most of anything,” Tyma went on. “I think
it is the greatest game in the world.”

“I don’t wonder you like tennis,” Laura exclaimed, “when you can beat
everybody at it. Oh, how mad it still makes me to think that when I’ve
been playing tennis for two years that Tyma has to give himself a
handicap when he plays with me.”