“Who wouldn’t!” exclaimed Laura and Arthur together.

“And I’d like to have a tutor,” Dicky declared. “Somebody to read to
you and answer all your questions. I should think that would be great.”

“I don’t believe you would like school long, Maida,” Rosie went on. “At
least if you went to the same kind of school we go to. Isn’t that so,
Arthur?”

Arthur nodded. “They’re no fun.”

“When the teacher puts the arithmetic problems on the blackboard,”
Rosie said, “I always get them done in five minutes. I’m good in
arithmetic and they’re almost always correct. Then there’s nothing for
me to do until the rest of the children have finished but read in my
Reader that I’ve read through a million times; or my Geography that I
have read just as often; or in the Supplementary Reading that I know
just as well.”

“That’s stupid,” Maida decided reflectively.

“And then, when we have to write compositions, I nearly die,” Rosie
went on in the same discontented vein. “I hate compositions. I never
can think of anything to say. I always have to stay after school--”

“Why Rosie, you write the most _wonderful_ letters,” Maida protested.
“Oh how I enjoyed getting them abroad! You told me all the things I
wanted to know and how I used to laugh at them too.”

“Oh well, letters aren’t writing!” Rosie said scornfully. “Anybody can
write letters.”

“I can’t,” Arthur declared, “I hate writing letters.”

“I don’t think it’s easy to write letters,” Laura interrupted,
“although Maida and Rosie do it so easily. I think they’re just as hard
as a composition. If you can write a letter, you ought to be able to
write a composition, and if you can write a composition, you ought to
be able to write a letter.”

“And then,” Arthur went on with the argument, “geography is so dull in
school. You never learn about the places you’d like to know about--like
Gibraltar and the Desert of Sahara and the North Pole and the jungles
of Africa and the Great Wall of China, and the Mammoth Cave and the
Grand Cañon. Or history. Now I’d like to study about Richard Cœur de
Lion and Robert Bruce and William Tell and Thermopylæ and the Alamo and
the Battle of Hastings and Waterloo and Gettysburg. But you never get
anything about them.”

“Gracious!” Rosie commented, “I don’t even know what those are.”

“Sometimes I like school,” Dicky said hesitatingly.

“That’s because you have only gone to school one year,” Laura declared
scornfully.

“Well I’d rather be with you in a school that wasn’t very interesting,”
Maida persisted, “than not be with you at all. Now next summer in the
Little House--”

“Next summer!” Rosie interrupted. “_Oh Maida, is there going to be a
next summer?_”

“Is there going to be a next summer?” Maida repeated. She stared about
the circle of faces; all very intent; all waiting almost with hushed
breath, for her reply. “Of course there’s going to be a next summer.
What made you think there wasn’t?”

“You never said once there was going to be a next summer,” Dicky
accused her out of the hubbub which succeeded this statement. “Oh I
could jump up and down!”

“I _shall_ jump up and down,” Rosie announced--and did until the glass
pendants to the candelabra tinkled.

Maida could only repeat feebly, “But of course there’s going to be a
next summer. It never occurred to me to tell you so. I thought you
understood.”

“Not only a next summer, but next summers,” a voice said back of them.

They all started and then jumped to their feet. Mr. Westabrook, coming
in very quietly, had apparently caught much of their discussion.

“A whole line of summers, all in a row,” he added as he took the easy
chair which Arthur pushed into the middle of the circle for him. He
helped himself to popcorn from the plate which Rosie filled and placed
in his lap; took one of the apples which Laura offered him; a piece of
the molasses candy which Tyma pressed upon him. “You’ve got a permanent
engagement with us every summer.”