“A Fairy Ring,” Dicky repeated in an awed tone. “Is it really a Fairy
Ring?”

“That’s what I’ve always called it,” Maida replied. “I don’t know what
it is, if it isn’t a Fairy Ring. I have never seen anything like
it--except in England and there they always call them Fairy Rings, and
besides nobody knows what it was used for.”

Arthur strolled around the entire circumference of the Ring keenly
examining the ground and the surrounding trees.

“It looks like a wood clearing to me,” he said in a low tone to Maida
when he rejoined the group.

Betsy, silenced for the first time in her five years of experience,
suddenly exploded. “Oh goody! goody! goody!” she exclaimed. “Now the
fairies will come and play with us. I’ve always wanted to see a fairy.
Now I’m going to see one!”

“I don’t believe they’s any such things as fairies,” Timmie declared
sturdily.

“Oh Timmie,” Dorothy Clark remonstrated, “I should think you’d be
ashamed of yourself. Of course they’s fairies.”

“Well, anyway,” Timmie still sturdily stood his ground, “if they are, I
don’t believe they’ll come and play with us.”

“Well, I believe they will,” Mabel Clark reinforced her sister.

But Betsy was capering up and down the length and breadth of the Fairy
Ring. “I know the fairies will come!” she sang aloud. “I know the
fairies will come! I know the fairies will come!”

When the older children left the Fairy Ring, all six of the little
children were capering too. The last thing they heard was Delia’s
mimicking words: “I know the fairz tum! I know the fairz tum! I know
the fairz tum!”

“That’s over,” Maida said. “I told Granny Flynn,” she explained, “that
I’d show the little children a nice place to play. Now let’s go into
the living room and talk. There are a whole lot of things that I’ve got
to tell you that I haven’t had time to tell you yet.”

Although it was a June day--and as warm and sunny as June knows how
to be--they gathered about the big fireplace where already logs were
piled and ready to burn. The boys sat on the fender; the girls drew up
chairs. After they were all comfortable Maida began.

“Father says that this first week we can all rest. It’s to be our
vacation, but after that, we’ve got to work. Father says that there are
some things that every girl ought to know how to do and some things
every boy ought to know. And we’re going to learn those things living
in the Little House.”

Rosie’s eyes danced. “Hurry!” she urged Maida.

Maida drew a long breath. “There’s so much of it. You see there’s
a good deal of work about the house, although it seems so small.
Floribel--she’s the colored maid--is going to do the cooking and Zeke,
her husband, will attend to most of the outside work. Of course Granny
Flynn and Mrs. Dore will run everything. But we girls are to take care
of our own rooms and the flower garden.”

“Oh goody, goody!” Rosie exclaimed, “I love flowers!”

“We are to keep the house decorated with flowers. And once every week,
we are to do the housekeeping for the entire day--that’s Floribel’s and
Zeke’s day off. That day, we have to plan the meals; do the marketing;
cook the food; wash and wipe the dishes.”

“Gee, I’m glad I’m not a girl,” Harold said jubilantly.

“Oh your turn comes now,” Maida declared. “You boys have got to weed
and water the vegetable garden; gather vegetables whenever they are
needed; run errands; take care of the tennis court.”

“For my part,” Laura declared, “I wish we did _all_ the cooking. I love
it.”

“You wouldn’t love it if you did it for sixteen people,” Maida
commented in a scandalized tone.

“It’s just as though we were all alone by ourselves,” Rosie declared
jubilantly.

“We are,” Maida stated. “We’re three miles from the Big House. We
shan’t see any of father’s company. Father has closed one of the
roads that leads to the Little House and the other is a secret one
that nobody but he and Botkins and I know. Your parents are invited
to visit you whenever they wish. Of course father will come to see us
occasionally. And let me tell you he will come when we least expect
it. And if everything isn’t in apple-pie-order--Of course there’s the
telephone if we should need help--or anything happened--But otherwise
we’re almost all alone in the world.”