“Oh, I left a note,” Maida protested.

“Are you sure you left it where they’d see it?”

Maida nodded. “I put a stone on it to hold it down and I surrounded it
by other pages that I tore out of my diary and put stones on them. You
could not fail to see it.”

Rosie lifted the baby and carried it to her bed. “I don’t think she
could fall off,” she said. “But to make sure I’ll put chairs up against
her and bank her around with pillows. Now we’d better let her sleep.”

In the meantime, Arthur had finished his telephoning. Mrs. Dore was as
well as could be expected; was resting quietly. The break was a simple
one. All she needed, in order to recover, was time and rest. The three
boys had managed to stop Delia’s sobs; had captured the five other
children and were keeping them quiet. Now they bombarded Maida with
questions.

For the third time, Maida told the story of the baby. “Well, Maida, you
certainly were brave,” Laura declared, “to follow that noise until you
found out what it was. I would have run as fast as I could and as far
as I could. That is, if I hadn’t fainted.”

“No,” Maida protested, “I wasn’t brave I wish I had been. At first I
was as frightened as I could be. But when it flashed on me that it was
a baby crying, it didn’t take any courage to find out where the baby
was.”

“I wonder whose baby it is,” Harold said.

Everybody said this at least once, everybody except Arthur, but Arthur
said nothing. He was thinking hard.

“Something queer happened to me the other night,” he broke out
suddenly. “I didn’t tell you all about it because--because--Well
somehow I couldn’t. I didn’t know what the answer was and I was ashamed
that a girl could beat me like that.”

“Like what?” Rosie demanded. “What are you talking about? Oh, Arthur,
do tell us!”

Arthur related in all its detail his experience with Silva Burle. “It
made me wild,” he admitted, “to think that a girl could find a path
that I couldn’t see and get away from me when I could run twice as fast
as she--Well not twice as fast,” he corrected himself honestly, “but a
great deal faster.”

“Well of course Silva’s a queer girl,” was Rosie’s comment. She added,
“She won’t be running down any paths for some time yet I’m afraid, poor
thing!”

“I think Silva had something to do with that baby,” Arthur guessed
shrewdly.

“What nonsense!” Rosie said briskly. “What would she be doing taking
care of somebody’s baby in the woods?”

“But she had a bottle of milk under her arm,” Arthur persisted.

“Yes,” Rosie said in an uncertain voice, “and that reminds me that I
have seen her before carrying bottles of milk.”

“Oh I think somebody’s probably left that baby there for the day,”
Laura said, “some tramp--or somebody.”

“But it must have been the baby crying that frightened us on the day of
the picnic,” Harold declared.

“Well then,” Laura explained, “it was the same baby and the same
people, whoever they were, left the baby in the cave that day too.”

The telephone rang. Arthur answered it. He listened for a moment, then
he said, “Yes, of course. We’ll be all right. Tell her not to worry.”
He turned to the others. “Poor Granny’s so upset that she wants to stay
near the hospital all night, so she can see Mrs. Dore the first thing
to-morrow morning. She asked if we could get along by ourselves until
Floribel came to-night and of course I said we could.”

“Of course we can,” Maida reassured him.

“Oh I’m so glad Granny can stay. It does seem as though everything came
at once.”

“Things go by three’s,” Rosie asserted.

“Well what are our three?” Maida inquired. “There was Mrs. Dore’s
accident, finding the baby and-- What’s the third?”

“You wait,” Rosie prophesied loftily, “It’ll come. But now the thing to
do is to get lunch. Thank goodness for all those cooking lessons we’ve
had. Don’t you remember, Maida, that your father said that we’d never
know when we’d be put in a situation that we’d be very glad we could
cook.”