“It’s like a story book,” Dicky commented.

“Maida!” Rosie said, “you speak of a flower garden and a vegetable
garden but I don’t remember that you showed them to us last night.”

“No, I didn’t,” Maida explained. “We were all getting so tired. But
I’ll show them to you now. Come!”

She led the way through the living room; through the dining room to
the back door of the house. Then she turned north. “This room is the
laundry,” she said. “And here,” pointing to an enclosure, set off by a
high vine-grown lattice, “is the drying yard.” They were now walking on
a path which ran between the house and a file of cypresses, standing
trim and tall and so close that they made a hedge. Maida led the way
to the corner where there was an opening. There a great rectangle
surrounded by cypresses was a garden--all roses. The bushes were
already in rich bloom, great creamy white ones and great pinky white
ones. Others were deep pink, golden yellow, a rich dark crimson.

“This is the rose garden,” Maida explained. “Beyond,” she led the
way into still another cypress-guarded square, “is the old-fashioned
garden. There are nasturtiums here and phlox and pansies and peonies
and lots of other things I can’t remember, and in the fall there’ll be
dahlias and asters.”

Rosie shook herself with joy. “I shall love working in this garden,”
she declared. “This afternoon let’s fill all the vases in the house
with roses.”

“All right,” Maida agreed absently. “Now I’m going to show you the
vegetable garden.”

“I know where that is,” Arthur boasted. “I got up early and explored.”

Maida led the way past the croquet ground, past the tennis court to
another cypress-bordered square. Here, in parallel lines, were rows
of green sprouts. The earth must have been turned over in the spring,
indeed it might have been turned over in the previous fall, rich loam
and cultivator added. It looked like freshly-grated chocolate.

“Gracious, I think I could make fudge of that earth,” Rosie exclaimed.

“How tidy it looks,” Laura commented.

“Yes,” Maida agreed. “That’s because the gardener has put it in perfect
condition for you boys. But after this, you’ve got to take care of it
yourselves. And weeds grow like--like--” She paused for a comparison.

“Like sixty!” Arthur finished it for her. “I know; I’ve weeded my
aunt’s garden in Maine. Believe me it’s hot work. The thing to do is to
work a little every day--that’s the only way you can keep ahead of the
weeds.”

“Sure, early in the morning!” Dicky remarked.

“How did you know that, Dicky?” Maida asked curiously.

“I just happened to read it in a book,” Dicky explained.

“Now, when I tell you,” Maida went on, as one suddenly remembering the
rest of her instructions, “that we shall have to go to bed at nine
and get up at seven, I have told you all I have to tell you. Father’s
very strict about our sleep. He says we must have ten hours. There’s
one exception. Saturday night, when we can sit up until ten and Sunday
morning when we can sleep until eight. Now, how would you like to go to
the Magic Mirror?”

“Oh I’ve been on pins and needles every moment since we got up wanting
to go to that Pond,” Rosie declared, “but then I want to see everything
at once.”

“Arthur, do you know how to row a canoe?” Dicky asked.

“No, I don’t,” Arthur admitted.

“I do,” said Harold with a slight accent of superiority, “but you don’t
_row_ a canoe. You row a _boat_ and you _paddle_ a canoe.”

“Does it take long to learn?” Dicky asked with great interest.

“No, and it’s as easy as pie when you get the hang of it, but you fall
overboard a hundred times before you do that.”

“I can’t swim,” Dicky said disconsolately.

“Never mind, Dicky,” Maida comforted him, “you’ll soon learn. Can you
swim Rosie?”

“Yes. I’ll teach you Dicky. You begin first with water wings and then--”