“I wonder when Maida’s coming back?” said Rosie Brine as she approached
the trio of children who sat on the Lathrop lawn.

The three were Laura Lathrop; her brother, Harold Lathrop; their
friend, Arthur Duncan. Rosie did not join them on the grass. She seated
herself in the hammock behind them and began to swing, first slowly,
then so violently that her black curls swept back and forth with her
swift progress and her speech came in jerks. “I wouldn’t mind--how long
I had to wait--if I only knew--when she was coming.”

Nobody answered. Rosie had only asked a question that they all asked at
intervals, hoping against hope that somebody would make a comforting
guess.

“I don’t believe she’s _ever_ coming back,” Rosie answered herself,
recklessly swinging almost over their heads.

Arthur Duncan, a big broad-shouldered boy with tousled thick brown hair
beating down over his forehead and almost veiling eyes as steady as
they were black, answered this. “Oh Maida’s coming home some time. She
promised and she always keeps her promises.”

“When we were going to school,” put in Laura Lathrop, “it was bad
enough. But we didn’t have time to miss her so much then. But now that
school’s over and there’s nothing to do--Oh, how I wish she were here!”

“Well, what good would it do?” Harold Lathrop asked. Harold and Laura
looked much alike although Laura was slim and brown-haired and Harold
flaxen and a little stout. But both had blue eyes and small, regular
features.

“We wouldn’t see anything of her,” Harold continued, “she’d he going
away somewhere for the summer and we wouldn’t have a chance to get to
know her until fall.”

“Maida’d never do that,” Rosie Brine declared emphatically. “She’d
manage some way to be with us for a while.” She brought the hammock to
a stop for a moment with the swift kick of a determined foot against a
tuft of grass. “There’s one thing I am sure of and that is that Maida
would never forget us or want to be away from us. She says that in
every letter I’ve got from her.”

“Well, what are we going to do to-day?” Harold demanded. “I should
think from the way we sit here that we had not been counting up the
days to vacation for a month. Why Laura’s even had the hours all
numbered out on her calendar, so’s she could draw a line through them
every night.”

“I wanted to have the minutes marked out too,” Laura admitted, “but it
took too much time.”

“What are we going to do?” Harold persisted. “Here it is the first day
of vacation, and we sit here saying nothing. You think of something,
Arthur, you always can.”

Arthur Duncan rolled over face downwards on the grass. “I can’t think
of anything to do this morning,” he admitted. “It’s so hot ... and I
feel so lazy ... seems to me I’d just like to lie here all day.”

It was hot that late June day in Charlestown. Not a breeze stirred the
shrubs of the Lathrop lawn. The June roses drooped; the leaves seemed
wilting; even the blue sky looked thick and sultry. Huge white clouds
moved across it so lazily that it was as though they too felt the
general languor. The children looked as children generally look at the
close of school, pale and a little tired. Their movements were listless.

Just outside the gate of the Lathrop place was Primrose Court; a little
court, lined with maples and horse-chestnuts with shady little wooden
houses set behind tiny gardens, in their turn set within white wooden
fences. At one corner of Primrose Court and Warrington Street, set
directly opposite a school house, was a little shop. And over the shop
printed in gold letters against a background of sky blue, hung a sign
which read:


MAIDA’S LITTLE SHOP


In Primrose Court, the smaller children were playing as briskly as
though there were no such thing as weather. Brown-eyed, brown-haired,
motherly Molly Doyle, quick, efficient but quiet, was apparently
acting as the wife and mother of an imaginary house. Smaller and
younger, Timmie Doyle, her brother, a little pop-eyed, brownie-like
boy, slow-moving and awkward, was husband and father. There were four
children in this make-believe household. Quite frequently, little Betsy
Hale, slim, black-eyed and rosy-cheeked and little Delia Dore, chubby
and blonde with thick red curls, attempted to run away; were caught and
punished with great thoroughness. Apparently Dorothy and Mabel Clark,
twin sisters, one the exact duplicate of the other, with big, round
blue eyes and long round golden curls, were the grown-up daughters
of this make-believe family. They were intent on household tasks,
thrusting into an imaginary stove absolutely real mud pies and sweeping
an imaginary room with an absolutely real dust-pan and brush.