(When Ed McCauley was a very young officer--in fact, a new-made
first lieutenant, space travel was restricted to robots. They did
good work, for robots, but it wasn't enough. No man had ever gone
up in a rocket. Nobody had ever gone up--let alone land safely. So
the time came when somebody had to. And in those very early days
McCauley volunteered for the job and managed to get it.)

First Lieutenant Ed McCauley opened his eyes and looked at the ceiling,
wondering drowsily why this morning seemed so much more satisfying
and important than any other. He'd had a good sleep, even though he
remembered vaguely that he'd had a hard time dropping off. Now the
sunlight came through the window blind in slatted streaks, the wall was
a pale tan, and he was lying on an iron cot, his uniform neatly draped
over a chair. Then he heard voices and the clattering of china, and
suddenly he remembered where he was and what was important about today.

Today was the day of the shoot. The rocket shoot. It wasn't going to
be big and spectacular, with a multiple-stage giant looming so high
that a man couldn't see the payload capsule on top without his neck
creaking. There'd be no giant gantry crane hovering over a slim but
monstrous missile with its hundreds of plugged-in wires recording
the performances of some tens of thousands of separate parts, all of
which had to work perfectly if one part were to be any good. Even the
electric wires had to pull clear perfectly when the gantry crane rolled
back a matter of seconds before the end of the count down.

No. This shoot wouldn't be spectacular. There weren't even any
reporters around. Official Service cameramen would record what
happened; and if all went well there'd be plenty of excitement about
it later, and if all didn't go well it wouldn't matter too much. This
time there was no publicity buildup. Nobody'd be disappointed if things
went wrong. The only person who'd feel badly was First Lieutenant Ed
McCauley, and he wouldn't feel it too keenly. In fact, he wouldn't feel
anything.

He'd be dead.

He considered the idea for a moment, but when a person is First
Lieutenant McCauley's age, dying is something that happens to somebody
else. You can't imagine it happening to you. It's a sort of reverse of
being born, but you can't imagine that either, though it happened.

He sat up and kicked his feet over the side of the cot. He felt a
little bit relieved. He was excited, now that he remembered what was
in the works for today, but it wasn't a solemn feeling. He got up and
looked at himself in the small square mirror over the washstand. He
looked exactly as he always did. He felt the same way. Well-l, maybe
a little more awake and alive than usual, because he'd been horribly
afraid that something would happen and the shoot would be called off.
But it hadn't--so far.

He went down the hall to the showers, trailing a towel over his
shoulder. He showered, thinking zestfully about the prospects. There'd
be no trouble about the weather. At this base clouds were exceptional
and a cloud cover that hindered even visual tracking was almost
unknown. Suddenly he wanted to sing, but he restrained himself. As
lucky as he felt, it might sound like showing off.

The door of the shower room opened and somebody came in.

"Hi, National Hero. You in there?" It was Randy's voice, slightly
sardonic.

"Ain't nobody here but us chickens, boss," McCauley answered
cheerfully. "Nary a hero."

Randy grunted.

"How d'you feel, Ed?"

"Wet," said McCauley. He turned off the shower and began to towel
himself. When he emerged, Randy searched his face, his anxiety showing
on his own.

"Nope," said McCauley, "the condemned man's got a good appetite for
breakfast. Quit worrying about me, Randy!"

"If you'd only slipped on your soap and broken your doggone neck,"
Randy complained, "a good guy might've gotten a chance to take your
place!"

McCauley grinned. Randy would give his eyeteeth to take his place
today. Anybody would. McCauley still worried that even now something
would spoil things, but he'd been worrying for months. He'd been jumpy
ever since the rumor first went around that sometime soon somebody was
going up in a rocket and coming down again. Nobody ever had. Up to this
morning it was still waiting to be done. But somebody--in fact, he
himself--should do it today. This was why today was the most special
day of his life.