McCauley nodded. Space is no place for the self-righteous or the
intolerant. Charity is a requisite for the endurance of journey in
emptiness, in closed tin cans with re-breathed air and enforced
exasperating contact with other persons. The Mars Expedition members
had been chosen for personality traits as well as technical
competence. It was remarkable that Fallon had been able to imitate his
brother's character well enough to avoid unmasking before take-off.

The work of the Expedition went on. In the half-hour day, the rockets
for Mars were loaded and set up for firing. Immediately after darkness
fell, they went streaking away from the small, misshapen asteroid.
McCauley or Randy at the control board picked up their monitor signals
one by one, verified their course and speed, and made such adjustments
as would be needed to get them to the planet which men now ought to
reach a good twenty years ahead of schedule. Near Mars, they'd be swung
into orbit and landed one by one.

It became routine. But it was a hair-raising routine. There was a
tissue-thin difference between the success and failure that meant
life or death. What rest they took was in snatches. But things went
along. Curiously enough, when Hathaway and Brett and Soames were told
in confidence of Fallon's self-produced predicament, it amounted to
easing the tension their continuous labor might have produced. They had
something to think about besides the nerve-racking need for absolute
accuracy and absolute care in all they did out of the ship. Crawling
about under the cargo nets was harrowing. There were the stars. There
was the feeling of absolute emptiness, into which their sensations
assured them that they were falling unendingly.

But Fallon had no relief as the others did. He didn't have their
purpose. They were risking their lives to accomplish something they
wanted to do. That was why they were here. But Fallon was with them in
flight from the law. He had only fear to sustain him.

Three-fourths of the rockets had been released. Nine-tenths. There were
more than forty rockets aground on Mars and the ship was refueled, and
already it would be possible to leave Eros and land on Mars and set up
the base and do the work the Expedition was expected to do. They could
do all this and then return to Earth. The rockets still in space and on
Eros amounted to a margin beyond necessity, and every extra one that
landed would increase the surplus of equipment and supplies.

And then Fallon got lost. He was never out of sight of the others, but
he got lost. It was the rule, of course, for every man to have his own
life line securely fastened to solidity. They were long life lines to
permit movement about the cargo cache and the much-diminished heaps of
stores. They were inconvenient, but they were starkly necessary. It was
strictly forbidden for any man at any time not to be safely tethered.
And....

A rocket was to be made ready for firing. Its cargo was brought to
it, item by item. Fallon had worked with the others. He was treated
with singular forbearance by his shipmates. There came a moment when
somebody had to shift his space-rope anchorage. It happened to be
Fallon who needed to do this. Soames took hold of Fallon's space rope
in the middle and held it firmly while Fallon shifted the end to
another anchorage. Fallon was nervous, worried. He finished the task
quickly and went on toward the cargo items he was to move.

McCauley, prowling on his perpetual task of inspection, saw the knot
Fallon had made. He said sharply:

"Fallon, stop moving and hold on to something solid."

Fallon swung about and stared apprehensively. He clung to an anchor
rod sunk in the metal of the asteroid. McCauley made sure he was safe,
untied the space-rope knot, and tied it more securely.

"It was a bad knot," said McCauley. "You're safe now."

McCauley went on. This was outside the cargo-netted space and near
where the rockets went up. Fallon clung fast to the drill rod. The
others went about their business. Stars blazed in the daylight sky. The
sun flamed far, far away. Fallon stayed motionless, gripping the rod
that was securely set into the metal of Eros.

Presently he stirred stealthily and tugged at the rope with the new
knot in the end. It was firm. He tugged more strongly. It held. Then,
with the gentlest and most fearful of tuggings, he drew himself to
where McCauley had fastened his space rope. He examined McCauley's
knot. Fallon was afraid of McCauley, because he had made a bargain he
did not believe McCauley would keep. He believed that McCauley meant
to be the sole survivor of the Mars Expedition, returning secretly to
Earth with tens of millions in stolen atomic fuel.

And Fallon believed that McCauley had planned the near-tragedies of
Hathaway and Soames. Therefore he believed that McCauley would be
arranging more successful accidents for those two and the rest, and
that because Fallon knew of McCauley's plans, he, Fallon, would be the
first to be destroyed.