McCauley didn't mind the heat. He felt remarkably aware of being alive
and breathing, of the sunlight, and of a wrinkle in his pants on the
jeep seat. After a little he saw the flat roof of the blockhouse. Then
he felt scared. He was afraid of the blockhouse. There'd be a last
checkup to make sure he was perfectly all right, perfectly normal, no
more tense than the doctors decided was allowable, and so on. His heart
began to pound a little and he agonized over it. If they decided it was
acting queer....

He found himself praying again. Please, God, don't let them find
anything wrong with me! I want so much to do this!

Randy didn't look at him. A good guy, Randy. He'd know it was panic
over those doggone doctors poking stethoscopes at him and going off to
mutter together about what they'd heard.

"Randy, if I look scared, it's because I am," McCauley said between
his teeth. "There's a medic in that blockhouse who wanted his
brother-in-law to get this job. He'd be just the kind to mess me up
now!"

Randy offered a cigarette. McCauley shook his head.

The blockhouse was sunk in the dry earth. It was concrete, yards thick,
with nothing visible from this side except a deep-sunk door in the
wall. On the other side there was a narrow slit to look out of, and
there were periscopes and in a pit over yonder the close-by trackers.
There were other trackers in other spots--as far away as the mountains.
But there wasn't much of anything to be seen here.

... No. There was the rocket. One of the new big Aerobees. Nothing
fancy about it. The Atlas and the long-distance jobs generally
got all the publicity these days. But the Aerobees were solid and
workmanlike, veteran performers. Fancy hardware broke the records and
was what people meant when they talked about missiles and rockets, but
Aerobees were the workhorses that went up without fanfare, got the
information they were sent up for, and got it back down again. It was
an Aerobee that had proved matter-of-factly that most of the stuff in
the textbooks about the upper air simply wasn't so. Aerobees were the
first to disprove the belief that the tropopause was a motionless,
featureless calm belt up aloft. Aerobees brought back conclusive
evidence of vertical currents in that supposed utter calm, currents
that shot upward at three hundred meters per second. And it was
Aerobees that brought back proof of ultraviolet light reaching Earth
on its dark side, so the theory boys could go quietly mad figuring out
where the light came from.

Yes. The pointed nose and sleek shape of the Aerobee was a comfort,
standing by its straight-up launching tower. McCauley'd seen dozens of
shoots of Aerobees. He felt the affection a man feels for something
that does its job competently and casually, day in and day out, when
called upon to do it.

The jeep stopped. Randy got out and McCauley followed him. The sergeant
opened his mouth but thought better of it. He drove away without saying
anything more about luck.

The doorway of the blockhouse was cool. Inside, as the door closed
behind him, McCauley felt the air-conditioned chill and the clatter
of the place almost as if he'd been struck a blow. There were people
everywhere. Practically everybody wore a phone headset and chest
microphone and everybody was talking to somebody somewhere else, paying
no attention to anyone nearby.

McCauley stood still, waiting to be told where to go. Somebody called
to him:

"The docs aren't ready for you yet, Lieutenant. You're early."

"Okay," McCauley said. "Where'll I go to get out of the way?"

It didn't look as if anybody else could possibly wait around in the
blockhouse without further fouling up the already-present confusion.

"Let's go look at the transportation," Randy suggested.

McCauley shrugged and followed Randy outside. It was comforting that
nobody paid any attention to him. At least the people in charge of the
shoot weren't worrying about his not being okayed for the job.

In the sunshine again, he saw familiar things. The close-by trackers
in their pits, sunk below ground level in case something blew. The
telemeter receivers looked like huge wire bowls, decorated with rolls
of toilet tissue, aimed at the sky. They moved back and forth, testing.
They'd get back telemetered information and sort it out and make
tapes of it, and whoever read those tapes would know more about what
was happening than McCauley did. A telemetering system will sample a
practically indefinite number of instrument readings three hundred
times a second and send back the information in wild banshee howls or
else in scratchy noises that sound like all the static in the world
coming out of one loud-speaker.