The irony of the last words was corrosive.

"Sir...." The two voices spoke together, outraged and despairing.
"Sir," panted Kent's voice, alone. "We'd no idea of anything like that,
sir! We've always hated each other, but...."

His voice ended in a gulp. McCauley growled. A young officer can be
very much of a fool, of course, but he can be desperately solicitous
for the honor of the Service to which he is attached. McCauley spoke
with icy precision.

"I am not concerned with your lives or your hatreds or your intentions.
I am concerned with the good name of the Space Service. I order you
both to come back here. Alive. Together. You will start immediately!"

A dazed silence. Then Kent said:

"But--you don't want us to bring the sledge...."

"And we haven't--" this was Holmes--"we haven't enough air to get back!
How can we do it, sir?"

McCauley relaxed in his small cubbyhole of an office. Very privately he
drew a breath of relief. But his tone remained stern.

"You will head for Repeater One. If you remember, my voice goes from
the base here to Repeater One where it is relayed to Repeater Two. If
I chose the proper frequency it would go on through Three and Four
to Farside. Can you think of any advantage in being at Repeater One
instead of Two?"

A long pause. Then Holmes' voice, dubious:

"It's nearer the base, sir. No more than three hours' travel, if that
much. We could make it on one tank of air apiece, sir, and have the
extra one for margin. We could make it to base from there, sir, if we
were there. But we're not, and it's three hours' travel from here! We'd
get there...."

"You _would_ get there?" demanded McCauley ominously. "Or you _will_
get there?"

"_Will_, sir." But the young officer's voice was bewildered.

"For your information," said McCauley curtly, "the Repeater One relay
unit is exactly like the relay unit at Repeater Two. I may add that
it is in bright sunshine, but will not be so indefinitely."--This was
because McCauley remembered an air tank which had lain in shadow until
its metal shivered brittlely when struck and the air inside it was a
liquid. "It was carried to its position and mounted exactly as the
relay for Repeater Two was. Now figure it out for yourself! If you
still don't understand when you get to it, call me from there. Now get
moving! Sunset's not far away."

He clicked off his microphone, but left the receiving unit on. The
relay at Repeater Two would pick up suit-radio speech and relay it
back, the pickup being from its all-direction antennae. McCauley heard
mumblings. Then, very distinctly, Holmes spoke.

"Understand, I'm going to cooperate with you, getting to Repeater One,
but that doesn't mean I like you any better!"

Kent said resentfully:

"I figured you'd have to fight me for the air to get back with. And you
pulled the same trick on me! But we'll manage eventually...."

More mutterings. Then:

"Cripes! Let's get going!"

There were those peculiar noises which a microphone inside a space suit
picks up and transmits. Breathings. Clankings. Sometimes the squeak of
metal sliding on metal.

McCauley listened. Presently the noises faded and ceased. The two young
space-suited officers had descended the mountain to where they were not
in line of sight of the relay, and consequently it could not pick up
their suit-radio communications to relay back to McCauley.

The communications officer tapped on the office door.

"We're through to Farside Base, sir," he reported. "The relay system's
working splendidly. Farside just asked for an Earth Relay link to Lunar
Base."

"Give it to 'em," said McCauley succinctly.

He waited, listening. He had Repeater One as well as Two set so it
would retransmit any local pickup on helmet-phone frequency, but it was
half an hour before anything but the peculiar singing murmurs of empty
space came from the loud-speaker. Then he heard heavy breathing.