The timer button was set at one minute. He struck the rocket-firing
button.

He was hurled back in his seat with a sort of vicious and unreasonable
violence. He was caught in a vise of twelve gravities pressure which
held him motionless against the seat back and tried to flatten out
his legs and body and prevent his breathing. But his flight suit was
designed to prevent exactly this. It squeezed also. His legs were
tightened unbearably. His arms were constricted past endurance. His
chest, his stomach--he was confined in the most horrible of strait
jackets. He felt his tongue curling back down his throat to strangle
him. With an utterly herculean effort he managed to turn his head to
one side. Then he could breathe, and the grav-pressure air protected
his chest from collapse, and he endured and endured and endured.

The minute of the rocket thrust lasted for centuries. Then the engine
cut off, and his head was pure anguish from the blood spurted through
it by his still-laboring heart. He was blinded by the pain. But it went
away.

Slowly, slowly, slowly, his sound-deadened ears regained their
sensitiveness. He heard Furness gasping:

"--minute rocket-blast ended. Checking course now. Over."

McCauley said absorbedly:

"There was a goof. A twelve-gee thrust with full fuel tanks is a whale
of a lot more when they're nearly empty!"

It was true, of course. The ferocity of a rocket thrust that would
accelerate a fully loaded ship at three hundred fifty-odd feet per
second per second would accelerate much more a ship weighing half as
much. Toward the end, McCauley and Furness had taken acceleration that
no man could live through for more than a very short time. But a man
can endure briefly a stress that would kill him if long-continued.

McCauley plunged into the desperately necessary task of this moment. He
had to determine his present course and speed. He could not take the
time to look out of the ports at the immensity of Earth below him. Men
in capsules, orbiting, had been as high as this, but they did not have
to compute their height or guide their vehicles. McCauley had to do
both.

The height was relatively simple. A radar screen, reduced to a vertical
slot for economy of space and weight, told him the distance to whatever
was below. A Doppler-effect velocity indicator would read off the
change in frequency of a crystal-controlled radio signal which his
speed produced. This substantially resembled the way an automobile
horn changes pitch when two cars pass each other; the pitch drops
swiftly at the moment of passing. But there was an observation which
was simpler and more direct.

He spotted a bright star near the horizon ahead. He read off its
angular distance from the world's edge. Looking aft, under the belly of
the ship, he read another angle from the world's edge to another star.
Minutes later, he repeated the observations. The star ahead was higher,
the one behind was lower. If one star rose faster than the other sank,
he would be gaining height. If one sank faster than the other rose, he
would be falling. If one rose exactly as fast as the other dropped, he
would be in a perfect circular orbit, neither rising nor falling. That
was too good to be expected. But from even two sets of observations he
could tell the line the ship was following, and hence its speed.

The ship did not have quite the speed necessary for a complete orbit.
It needed more. He could guess how much.

He said curtly to Furness:

"We've got to have a two-second push, anyhow. Maybe more later. Get
set."

Furness did not reply, but McCauley heard him reporting.

There was singularly little exultation in the small cabin. Furness'
face was drawn and colorless behind his helmet plate. McCauley was busy.

Presently, after a warning gesture, he set the rocket timer and
pressed the firing button. All the ghastly impact of high acceleration
repeated itself. But, lasting only two seconds, it was not much worse
than--say--falling from a second-story window down on a hard mattress.
It lasted longer, but there was not much other difference. It did not
build up to the torture of continued rocket thrust.

Then the ship floated on. There was utter silence. The vertical-slot
altimeter indicated a height which seemed absolutely steady. The
Doppler-effect velocity meter gave a reasonably satisfactory if not too
precise message. McCauley was working intensively on his course when
Furness said, with an effort: