"You can't stay out much longer, Randy," McCauley said. "I'll have to
try it."

"There's the moon," said Randy hoarsely. "I can see by that, ... maybe."

Again silence. The shape which was Earth became the thinnest of
crescents. The sun blazed fiercely almost at its outer rim.

The sun turned orange, crimson, ruby-red. It ceased to be a circle. One
edge blacked out. It was half blacked out. It was gone.

McCauley wriggled in the harness outside his space suit. He spoke
deliberately.

"I'm going to take all the deep breaths I can, Randy. I'll even let a
little extra pressure into my suit. Then I'll take off my last air tank
and try to steady myself with its jet of air. Then I'll put it under
my feet and jump against it, toward you. Now listen! If anything goes
wrong, it won't be your fault! Understand? Don't take any crazy risks.
If I go on past the Platform, get into the cabin fast before the cold
comes! That is my order! I expect you to obey it!"

"Cripes, Ed!" Randy's voice broke.

McCauley bled air into his suit. He breathed deeply and fast,
saturating his lungs with oxygen. He removed the tank and then spent
precious seconds stripping away the harness that had held tools and
extra equipment to his suit.

He jetted away the air. In the utter silence that was the universe, the
whistle of escaping compression was conducted to his gloved hands and
so to the remaining air inside his space suit. He used the jet with
infinite care. The tank tugged briefly and his random body rotation
stopped. He saw the Platform, almost incredibly dim in the moonlight.

He jumped against the mass of the air tank and harness together. In
seconds he could see that he was moving closer toward the silvery,
spidery framework in the moonshine. He kept himself still. Nothing he
could do now would add anything to his chance for life, and exertion
would lessen the time left before he suffocated for lack of air.

He relaxed by an iron effort of will. He had gambled. He could win or
he could lose. But he must keep the calmness of a man who sees the
stakes down and waits for the outcome.

The Platform was no more than a hundred and fifty yards away. No more
than a hundred.

He would miss it. He would pass sixty feet or more beyond its outermost
edge. Randy would undoubtedly try to throw him the space ropes he'd
tied together. The odds were enormously against his being able to catch
them.

He said nothing. If Randy thought that he'd run out of air before he
reached the point nearest the Platform, he would reproach himself less;
he'd believe he couldn't have done anything, anyhow.

Fifty yards. Twenty. He saw glittering metal only sixty feet away. But
there was no conceivable action he could take to move himself that
sixty feet.

Then something dark came toward him. It grew larger. It was Randy,
plunging out from the girders with a hundred and twenty feet of space
rope trailing behind him, made fast to a firmly bolted beam.

He collided with McCauley. McCauley felt him gripping fiercely. He felt
Randy clinging to him savagely against the jerk of the rope which must
tighten presently.

The jerk came, violent and abrupt.

Randy gasped in relief. He took away one space-suited arm to haul
at the space rope that had checked McCauley's slow drift past to
nothingness.

"Very nice work, Randy," said McCauley composedly, "but you took an
awful chance."

They bumped against the substance of the Platform--one square metal
tube some three inches by five.

"Can you hold on?" demanded Randy, panting. "I'll give you one of my
air tanks!"

They were out at the farthermost limit of the framework of the Space
Platform. McCauley's faceplate began to frost now, with the loss of
heat to the darkness.

"Make it fast," said McCauley. "We want to get in out of the cold."