"_Keep talking_," said the voice in the headphones. "_Keep talking,
man!_"

McCauley found himself stammering. What he said wasn't particularly
coherent, and he knew his taped speech would be studied to find out
exactly what mental state he was in. The headphones asked questions.
Could he see this? Could he see that? He answered yes and no. The voice
asked him to write something. He did, not looking at it. He stared
out at the monstrousness of the universe, with Earth merely a dimpled
gigantic ball below him.

He had no weight, but he did not notice. He gazed and gazed and
exulted, and absent-mindedly obeyed the orders which came insistently
to his ears. He wanted to saturate his mind and his memory with the
sight that nobody had ever seen before, except in pictures taken at
this height by robots.

Presently the sky wasn't totally black with innumerable tiny lights in
it. It was a deep, dark purple. The stars seemed fainter. He said so.

"_Right_," said the voice in his helmet. "_You reached peak altitude
minutes ago. You're well on the way back down, now. We're going to turn
the rocket over._"

He realized the absolute silence about him by the fact that now he
heard trivial, insignificant noises. Steam-jets came on--hydrogen
peroxide sprayed into a catalysis chamber where it broke down instantly
into steam and gas. The product rushed out the fin-tip jets. The
universe visibly turned upside down; the sky was down beyond his feet,
and the singular, unfamiliar object which was Earth could be seen only
when he craned his neck to look upward.

He felt no difference, of course. He'd had no weight before, and he had
none now. The appearance of Earth changed so gradually that he didn't
really realize that he was approaching it. But he knew it in his mind,
and he resented bitterly that he had passed the high point of this
achievement and was now bound back toward the commonplace, the ordinary.

He made an effort to become his normal self. "Now I suspect I'm getting
scared," he said wryly into his helmet mike. If he admitted it he'd
be ashamed and so could fight it. But he found that he wasn't really
scared. He was apprehensive, as one is when approaching a dentist's
chair. He felt reluctant, because he knew that after he got down he'd
be due for ghastly, tedious days during which the doctors would go over
him almost with microscopes to hunt for sputters--the burned, exploded
patches that would show up where cosmic-ray particles not slowed by air
went through his body. There shouldn't be any, but there could be some.
Robot instruments said no sputters. But a man had to come up here to
make sure.

He felt something--a featherweight of pull toward the pointed tip of
the nose-cone. The rocket had hit air which slowed it enough so he
noticed it. He was astounded that he'd come back so far so fast. True,
he was still almost unthinkably high by the standards of other men, but
he'd been out in space!

Earth was deplorably near. At twenty miles up--a hundred-odd thousand
feet--the processes for landing him should begin. He settled himself
in his seat against what was coming.... He suddenly realized that he'd
been talking, though he didn't remember what he'd said. Undoubtedly,
though, he'd said everything that came into his head. He stopped. The
headphone voice said encouragingly, "_You're okay!_"

"So far!" he answered.

There was the story about the optimist who fell off a skyscraper.
Twenty stories earthward he saw someone looking out a window and
called, "Everything's fine so far!" Yes....

There was an explosion and he started. Then others. They came from
small, half-pound explosive charges set at carefully chosen places on
the rocket. They were there to wreck its streamlined shape; to make
it an irregular, dynamically inefficient object which would offer
enormously increased resistance to its own fall through the air.
Technically it was considered that the terminal speed-of-fall of the
shattered rocket would be less than that of a man falling free without
a parachute. What was that? A hundred and fifty miles an hour, or a
hundred and twenty? McCauley tensed himself.

It seemed that something broke loose. The rocket reeled. It plunged.
It turned end over end and McCauley was flung intolerably this way
and that against the straps that held him in his seat. A wallop
nearly snapped his neck. But this was the way it was supposed to be.
Streamlined, the rocket would have struck nose-first and buried itself
in small fragments in the sandy soil below. This way....

It mushed. It wabbled. It tumbled as crazily as a maple leaf and as
dizzily. McCauley steeled himself to endure it. "_Sixteen more miles of
this!_" he thought.