He rolled up a strip of white cloth. He was irritated by the insistent
feeling that he needed antiseptics he didn't have. He worked at the
recalcitrant opening in the cloth of the flight suit and packed the
wound with nylon. Then he worked more nylon about and over the packing
to make a firm pad. He tore long strips to put around Furness' body to
hold the packing fast and tied them tightly.

It was awkward to work where there was no weight. It seemed unreal to
attempt the preposterous where there was no sound. He worked swiftly.
Suddenly there was a redness in the light reflected all about the cabin
from the sunshine that came in the ports.

He jerked up his head, thinking foolishly of fire. Then he saw the sun.
It lay beyond a vast curved barrier that shut off all the light of all
the stars. The sun was in the act of descending, to be eclipsed by the
edge of Earth, and its light came through hundreds of miles of thick
air which turned it from a burning golden glare to flame-red, and then
crimson, and then ruby-red as he stared. Then its rim was blanked out
and it slid swiftly down to extinction. The light went from gold to
carmine to ruby and the sun was blotted out in less than ten seconds.

Then the ship traveled through purest night. The cosmos outside
its ports was sharply divided. There was a hemisphere filled with
the coruscations of a million million stars. The other half of the
universe was the night side of Earth, but it looked like the abyss of
nothingness from which all things came, and to which it may be that all
things will return.

McCauley reached over and switched on lights. Furness looked at him
through eyes that seemed deep-sunk in his head.

"You tore your pilot chute," he said thinly. "You've no chance to jump,
now."

McCauley scowled. There were various methods by which the ship could be
landed or at least its occupants might escape its crash. There was the
skip process, in which the ship could be settled down into atmosphere
just thick enough to slow it as it bounced out to space again for
another settling, another slowing, another bounce. It was considered
the most practical way for a ship to get back to Earth after an orbital
flight. To choose the final landing place, of course, was out of the
question. Also it was believed that even with the best of luck the
ship's crew might have to take to their chutes and let the ship crash.
But Furness could not make a chute-drop. Nor could McCauley, now.

"Time for a report," said McCauley.

He'd meant to make it, but Furness summoned all his strength. He ran
his eyes along the instruments.

"X-21 reporting," he said as loudly as he could. "Just passed darkness
line. Altitude...."

He went through the list of readings to be given by voice. They might
be picked up by satellite-tracking stations which did not quite pick
up the ship itself. They would almost certainly be picked up by South
African radio amateurs listening for them.

"More comfortable?" McCauley asked gruffly.

Furness moved his head in a fashion that might be considered a nod.
After a long time he said:

"Is there any ... water in the ... survival kit?"

McCauley fumbled. There was. The survival kits were the small parcels
which might conceivably mean the difference between dying and not
dying if a man had to ditch his disabled plane or jump from a burning
one. Together with an inflatable boat, they were included in the
X-21's equipment as a sort of pious wish. It was not to be believed
that this ship would end its career like a mere atmosphere plane. If
the steam-jets didn't work, the most perfect operation of the rocket
engine would never get the ship down into the atmosphere, even for
destruction. If it got down to the atmosphere there were still several
thousand things that could go wrong. It was definitely not likely that
its crew could jump to safety in case of need, or land so serenely on
water that a rubber raft would do them any good. But the survival kits
were there.

McCauley gave Furness water. He did not comment on the complications
Furness' injury added to a landing problem that was already complicated
enough. Instead, he looked at the clock.

"We're close to Antarctica now," he observed. "We ought to run into
moonlight, too."

He peered out of a port. The tiny lighted cabin swam in emptiness,
without sound, without sight of anything but remote and indifferent
stars. It floated above the part of the world where the Indian and
Atlantic Oceans flow together, and where there is unbroken sea all
around the antarctic continent. A wind can blow completely around the
world there, and rather frequently it does; and the gigantic waves that
are engendered are spoken of with aversion by seamen. But McCauley
could not see any waves. There was floating ice below, but as he
thought of it it changed to the massive ice sheet of the bottom of the
world. So the tiny lighted cabin raced over mountains and plains all
buried in snow which had been there since the beginning.