He turned from the sight of a universe divided into stars and
blackness. There was no practical measure to be taken--not now, anyhow.
McCauley might contrive a way to get himself safely down to earth,
letting Furness take his own chance with no strength to help himself.
It seemed improbable in the extreme that Furness could survive a crash
landing, even if no explosion followed. There was very little hope
that the X-21 could be landed save in a crash. But it did not occur
to McCauley that he was relieved of responsibility. A normal landing
was not really hoped for. If McCauley piloted the X-21 into orbit and
out again, he'd have done the unprecedented and the next try might go
better. But he could not imagine himself leaving Furness in a ship
headed for a landing that was bound to be a pile-up....

He couldn't expect to land intact himself, with his pilot chute ripped
out and torn apart.

"I'm sorry you tore up your pilot chute," said Furness. "It about kills
your chance of getting down to the ground in one piece. And it's my
fault. You tore it up for me. But when I came on the ship I didn't
think I was hurt badly."

"I'd have done just what you did," said McCauley. "It would have taken
two broken legs to keep me from walking over as if nothing had happened
to me." Then he remembered. "Report?"

Furness gathered his strength and spoke in an almost natural voice:

"X-21 reporting. We are over Antarctica at the farthest south part of
our orbit. Altitude...."

He went through the list, and then his eyes went to the canteen from
which McCauley had given him water. McCauley gave him another drink.

"That son of mine," said Furness abruptly. "He reveres you. When I was
picked to ride observer with you, he almost went out of his head with
pride. I was--I suspect I was a little bit jealous of you. A man likes
his son to think he's the greatest man on earth. My boy almost believed
it when I was picked for this job. But if I'd backed out...."

McCauley nodded.

"Under the circumstances," he agreed, "you'd walk to the ship and come
aboard if you had to carry your head in your hand. A man wouldn't
disappoint his son."

"He'd have been so proud," said Furness, "if we'd made it! And I've
messed it all up!"

"I'm hanged if I'll compliment you," McCauley said, "but it would
have been disgraceful if you'd done anything else. A man has to set
an example for his son. And we may make out. In any case we're just
thirty-two minutes from some very tricky stuff. I think we'd better
think of cheerier things."

"Sorry," said Furness. He turned his eyes away. He brooded.

Seconds ticked by in the cabin. Frost began to form on the ports. There
was no air outside, so there could not be said to be any temperature.
But the ship radiated heat into empty space and received next to none
in return. If allowed to cool until thermal equilibrium with its
surroundings was reached, the X-21 would go down to some two hundred
and fifty-four degrees below zero centigrade. But that would be in
darkness. In sunlight it would be a different matter, and the ship'd be
out of darkness in minutes.

They were very long minutes. The altitude radar said that the ship was
maintaining the most nearly perfect circular orbit any man-made object
had achieved to date. The X-21 was a lonely mote with yellow light
glowing from its cabin openings. From time to time, invisibly, radio
waves spread out from a stiff metal rod pointed sternward, and some of
them might--with luck--be picked up by somebody. But the ship received
nothing, here.

It passed south of Kerguelen Island in the blackness, and it was
midnight local time, though the ship was only forty-five minutes of
free-fall flight from Quartermain Base. Presently the X-21 headed
northward and crossed the meridian where it was one A.M. something less
than five minutes later. It reached a point south of Australia in under
ten minutes more. It swept above the lowermost part of Australia and
Tasmania together when the clocks on the ground said five A.M.

It was only when the remotest rim of the blackness which was
Earth turned bright--when the dawn could be seen at the farthest
horizon--that McCauley thought to look for the moon. It shone down
coldly, but it was not bright enough to show him any pattern in the
blackness nearly three hundred miles below the ship.

In eight minutes more, however, the sun had rolled up over the edge
of the world and below the ship there was ocean. Away off to the
left McCauley could see spiral arms of cloud, signifying a cyclonic
disturbance moving north across the Coral Sea. Sturdy steamships fought
for their lives in that typhoon, and many human beings would die in it.
The ship sped on, and there came into the headphones of both McCauley
and Furness a beamed message from the naval installation at Guam, which
dimly and fugitively could be sighted under an aggregation of white
clouds more dense than ordinary. The message said: