Randy closed the door of the cubicle where McCauley would put on the
grav-suit. It was skin-tight and festooned all over with stray bits of
equipment. Randy helped him get into it.

"Lucky son-of-a-gun!" he said conversationally. "How do the Irish get
all the breaks?"

"Clean living," McCauley told him, "and a drag with the top brass."

It wasn't so, of course. Not the top brass part, anyhow.

His arm caught in the right sleeve and Randy helped him straighten
it. There were peculiar tubes built into the fabric. They were all
hooked to a grav-valve that would let compressed air into them at a
suitable pressure to tighten the suit and fight the tendency of his
blood and inner organs to be left behind when his bones and flesh were
accelerated by the full thrust of the rocket. A man wasn't built to
stand the acceleration he had to take. But the grav-suit would make up
the difference.

He turned slowly around, and Randy inspected everything with the
jealous care of somebody who'll never forgive himself if anything goes
wrong. Presently he said:

"Flip it--but be careful!"

McCauley touched the test-stud. The tubes expanded. The suit tightened.
It felt as if it were going to try to squeeze his whole body out
through the neck. He lifted his hand and the squeezing stopped. Randy
screwed up the test-stud so it couldn't flip on by accident. He felt
of the chute-pack that was part of the suit, with the wide straps that
went around McCauley's body and thighs. He checked the four trailing
cables--each with a different-shaped plug on its end--that would pass
along all the suit-instrumentation news to the telemeter transmitter.

Then Randy nodded worriedly and gave McCauley a cigarette.

"It looks okay," he said. But he fretted.

"Everything's okay," said McCauley.

He puffed contentedly. When the cigarette was half-smoked, somebody
tapped on the door.

"You can get aboard, Lieutenant."

McCauley stood up. Randy opened the door for him and he went ambling
clumsily through the blockhouse toward the exit. He heard a toneless
voice say: "Crash wagon two"; then the man listened and made a
checkmark. Somebody else snapped: "Tell the idiot that we're trying to
keep him out of range of a few tons of hardware that'll be coming down
out of the sky presently. Sit on his head!" That would be the official
response to the civilian motorist's objection to being kept safely off
the test site when a shoot was on.

McCauley went on out into the open air. He felt weighty and clumsy
and cumbersome. He went around the blockhouse and into the blazing
sunshine. The fueling crew was finished, but they hadn't left. They
waited to watch him go aboard. There was a ladder leaning against the
Aerobee. McCauley plodded heavily to the foot of it. He put his foot on
the first rung and turned to Randy.

"Here I go."

"Yeah," said Randy. He didn't smile. He couldn't. But he did have a
fine air of nonchalance as he said, "See you soon."

There was no handshake. It would have been too much like saying
good-by. McCauley started up the ladder.

It was a long climb; and three-quarters of the way up, with all the
assorted gimmicks and the clumsy chute-pack banging against his
buttocks, he began to breathe fast. Once he stepped on a trailing
cable. He looked down and was annoyed to find that the height bothered
him--a man who would presently be up many miles higher than any man had
ever been before. And this was only tens of feet, yet he felt giddy! He
didn't look down again.

He reached the door in the nose-cone and climbed in. He'd practiced
it. He felt easier when he was inside. Up here, on top of several tons
of rocket fuel, he felt safer because there was a floor under him. He
grimaced at the foolishness of it. Rocket fuel is highly explosive;
a rocket works because a continuous explosion is taking place in its
engine. But McCauley felt safer sitting on enough hydrazine and nitric
to blow him to atoms than coming up a narrow, springy ladder.

Laboriously he settled himself. The acceleration chair had been
tailored to fit him in this suit. He got the trailing cables clear and
made himself comfortable. Then he waited. He could stir a little, but
not much. It was, of course, extremely comforting to be able to move
his feet in even limited swings.