The first drone rocket lifted off Eros when the asteroid was a million
and a half miles from Mars. The rocket rushed ahead, dwindling until
it could no longer be seen among the stars. It carried a tank of
rocket fuel, a rocket motor, and a communications unit. That was all.
The drone was not streamlined, not pretty. It was a skeleton with
its drive at the tail, a shaft to tie the cargo to, and a television
camera at its nose. The first loads shipped were relatively unimportant
ones, so that initial disasters due to lack of experience would have
the least serious consequences. When the asteroid was a quarter of a
million miles farther on, more rockets were on the way. There were
two near-disasters. The rockets were prepared for launching during
the planetoid's half-hour "daylight," but they were launched when the
launching site was away from the sun and toward Mars farther out.
During daylight McCauley prepared one rocket for firing and returned to
the ship. Later Hathaway went out to set off that "night's" salvo. The
first rocket blew itself to bits when fired. Hathaway had a very narrow
escape.

The men figured out, afterward, that in the utter cold of the
planetoid's "night" the rocket motor had cooled to the brittle point
of metal. When the rocket was fired, the frozen metal flew apart
before it could warm up and thus restore normal strength throughout
its thickness. McCauley berated himself to Randy, because he had not
anticipated this fact. The rest of the salvo was held until "sunset"
the next day, and was fired within five minutes of the coming of
darkness, before the metal could cool to brittleness.

The other near-tragedy happened when a rocket took off and the flame
splashed against a glistening metallic upcrop and licked fiercely at
Soames' space-suited legs. He jumped convulsively, rose out of the
flame before it could either cook his legs or melt down his space suit,
and, gasping in horror, soared off and up to the length of his safety
rope. The rocket went past him no more than a dozen feet away. Its
exhaust could have burned him to a crisp, or at the least flashed his
plastic faceplate. That was a very close call indeed.

Presently Fallon came looking for McCauley. The mechanic was coming
off-shift and still wore his space suit. He opened the faceplate,
grinning nervously.

"Look here, Colonel," he said ingratiatingly, "I've got something I
want to say to you."

"Go ahead," said McCauley. He was still bitterly discontented with
himself. Actually, Soames should not have been so near the rocket
blast, but McCauley felt responsible because he hadn't ordered him
specifically away.

"Soames had a pretty close call," said Fallon nervously.

"Yes," said McCauley curtly.

"Hathaway had another," said Fallon. "When that rocket blew, he could
have been killed. He should've been."

"I know it," snapped McCauley.

"I ... I ..." Fallon hesitated. "Look, Colonel! We had a--disagreement.
I acted like a fool. I want to apologize."

McCauley scowled. There were innumerable things to worry about, and
Fallon was one of them. McCauley had taken the one line that might keep
Fallon from making trouble. He'd scared him, and it seemed to have
worked. But for Fallon to come to apologize was something else. It
meant that his attitude had changed from almost mutinous defiance to
panic.

"Forget it," said McCauley.

"I--didn't have you figured right," said Fallon shakily. "I thought
you were ... just the usual kind of character. I ... I know better
now. I'd--I'd like to ... well ... you're likely to need somebody to
help you. Maybe you don't think so, but if you knew you could count on
me...."

Fallon's voice practically clicked off, and McCauley realized that he
was terrified. The man was afraid to say something, but he was more
afraid not to.

"What would I need you for besides your duty?"

Fallon hesitated, licked his lips, and then said desperately:

"Soames and Hathaway--they almost got theirs. I've been thinking.
If ... accidents happened to us ... to all but you...."

"Go on," said McCauley, frowning.

"We're ... sending most of the stuff to Mars," stammered Fallon.
"B-but we're keeping the atom fuel on the ship. It's w-worth a lot. If
something happened to most of us ... why ... two men could take the
ship back to Earth and land it anywhere they wanted to. And if ... if a
person had contacts, that atom fuel would be w-worth a lot. Millions."