II
THE HEART OF THE MOON

Norton, whose watch it was, had already hurried toward the pilot room
where were located the controls and the various instruments. This room,
which was just forward of the engine-room, was in effect a circular
conning-tower which projected about twelve inches above the upper hull.
The entire circumference of this twelve inch superstructure was set with
small ports of thick crystal glass.

As I turned to follow Norton I spoke to West. “Mr. West,” I said, “you
and Mr. Jay will place Lieutenant Commander Orthis in irons immediately.
If he resists, kill him.”

As I hurried after Norton I heard a volley of oaths from Orthis and a
burst of almost maniacal laughter. When I reached the pilot house I
found Norton working very quietly with the controls. There was nothing
hysterical in his movements, but his face was absolutely ashen.

“What is wrong, Mr. Norton?” I asked. But as I looked at the compass
simultaneously I read my answer there before he spoke. We were moving at
right angles to our proper course.

“We are falling toward the Moon, sir,” he said, “and she does not
respond to her control.”

“Shut down the engines,” I ordered, “they are only accelerating our
fall.”

“Aye, aye, sir,” he replied.

“The Lunar Eighth Ray tank is of sufficient capacity to keep us off the
Moon,” I said. “If it has not been tampered with, we should be in no
danger of falling to the Moon’s surface.”

“If it has not been tampered with, sir; yes, sir, that is what I have
been thinking.”

“But the gauge here shows it full to capacity,” I reminded him.

“I know, sir,” he replied, “but if it were full to capacity, we should
not be falling so rapidly.”

Immediately I fell to examining the gauge, almost at once discovering
that it had been tampered with and the needle set permanently to
indicate a maximum supply. I turned to my companion.

“Mr. Norton,” I said, “please go forward and investigate the Lunar
Eighth Ray tank, and report back to me immediately.”

The young man saluted and departed. As he approached the tank it was
necessary for him to crawl through a very restricted place beneath the
deck.

In about five minutes Norton returned. He was not so pale as he had
been, but he looked very haggard.

“Well?” I inquired as he halted before me.

“The exterior intake valve has been opened, sir,” he said, “the rays
were escaping into space. I have closed it, sir.”

The valve to which he referred was used only when the ship was in dry
dock, for the purpose of refilling the buoyancy tank, and, because it
was so seldom used and as a further precaution against accident, the
valve was placed in an inaccessible part of the hull where there was
absolutely no likelihood of its being accidentally opened.

Norton glanced at the instrument. “We are not falling quite so rapidly
now,” he said.

“Yes,” I replied, “I had noted that, and I have also been able to adjust
the Lunar Eighth Ray gauge—it shows that we have about half the
original pressure.”

“Not enough to keep us from going aground,” he commented.

“No, not here, where there is no atmosphere. If the Moon had an
atmosphere we could at least keep off the surface if we wished to. As it
is, however, I imagine that we will be able to make a safe landing,
though, of course that will do us little good. You understand, I
suppose, Mr. Norton, that this is practically the end.”

He nodded. “It will be a sad blow to the inhabitants of two worlds,” he
remarked, his entire forgetfulness of self indicating the true nobility
of his character.

“It is a sad report to broadcast,” I remarked, “but it must be done, and
at once. You will, please, send the following message to the Secretary
of Peace: