“Has Sagroth no loyal followers, then,” I asked, “that you are all so
sure of the success of the _coup d’état_ that Ko-tah plans?”

“Ah, you know about it then!” cried one of them. “You are in the
confidence of the Javadar.”

I let them think that I was. It could do no harm, at least.

“Did he tell you when it was to happen?” asked the other.

“Perhaps, already I have said too much,” I replied. “The confidences of
Ko-tah are not to be lightly spread about.”

“You are right,” said the last speaker. “It is well to be discreet, but
let us assure you, Ju-lan the Javadar, that we are equally in the
confidence and favor of Ko-tah with any of those who serve him;
otherwise, he would not have entrusted us with a portion of the work
which must be done within the very palace of the Jemadar.”

“Have you many accomplices here?” I asked.

“Many,” he replied, “outside of the Jemadar’s guards. They remain loyal
to Sagroth. It is one of the traditions of the organization, and they
will die for him, to a man and,” he added with a shrug, “they shall die,
never fear. When the time arrives and the signal is given, each member
of the guard will be set upon by two of Ko-tah’s faithful followers.”

I do not know how long I remained in the City of Laythe. Time passed
rapidly, and I was very happy after I returned to the dwelling of
Moh-goh. I swam and dived with them and their friends in the baths upon
our terrace, and also in those of Ko-tah. I learned to use the flying
wings that I had first seen upon Nah-ee-lah the day that she fell
exhausted into the clutches of the Va-gas, and many were the lofty and
delightful excursions we took into the higher mountains of the Moon,
when Moh-goh or his friends organized pleasure parties for the purpose.
Constantly surrounded by people of culture and refinement, by brave men
and beautiful women, my time was so filled with pleasurable activities
that I made no effort to gauge it. I felt that I was to spend the
balance of my life here, and I might as well get from it all the
pleasure that Laythe could afford.

I did not see Nah-ee-lah during all this time, and though I still heard
a great deal concerning the conspiracy against Sagroth, I presently came
to attach but little importance to what I did hear, after I learned that
the conspiracy had been on foot for over thirteen kelds, or
approximately about ten earthly years, and seemed, according to my
informers, no nearer consummation than it ever had been in the past.

Time does not trouble these people much, and I was told that it might be
twenty kelds before Ko-tah took action, though on the other hand, he
might strike within the next ola.

There was an occurrence during this period which aroused my curiosity,
but concerning which Moh-goh was extremely reticent. Upon one of the
occasions that I was a visitor in Ko-tah’s palace, I was passing through
a little used corridor in going from one chamber to another, when just
ahead of me a door opened and a man stepped out in front of me. When he
heard my footsteps behind him he turned and looked at me, and then
stepped quickly back into the apartment he had just left and closed the
door hurriedly behind him. There would have been nothing particularly
remarkable in that, had it not been for the fact that the man was not a
Laythean, but unquestionably a Kalkar.

Believing that I had discovered an enemy in the very heart of Laythe, I
leaped forward, and throwing open the door, followed into the apartment
into which the man had disappeared. To my astonishment, I found myself
confronted by six men, three of whom were Kalkars, while the other three
were Laytheans, and among the latter I instantly recognized Ko-tah,
himself. He flushed angrily as he saw me, but before he could speak I
bowed and explained my action.

“I crave your pardon, Javadar,” I said. “I thought that I saw an enemy
of Laythe in the heart of your palace, and that by apprehending him I
should serve you best;” and I started to withdraw from the chamber.

“Wait,” he said. “You did right, but lest you misunderstand their
presence here, I may tell you that these three are prisoners.”

“I realized that at once when I saw you, Javadar,” I replied, though I
knew perfectly that he had lied to me; and then I backed from the room,
closing the door after me.

I spoke to Moh-goh about it the next time that I saw him.

“You saw nothing, my friend,” he said. “Remember that—you saw nothing.”

“If you mean that it is none of my business, Moh-goh,” I replied, “I
perfectly agree with you, and you may rest assured that I shall not
meddle in affairs that do not concern me.”