IX
THE FIGHT WITH THE KALKARS

The tunnel in which I found myself and along which Nah-ee-lah led me
toward the city of Laythe was remarkable in several particulars. It was
largely of natural origin, seemingly consisting of a series of caves
which may have been formed by bubbles in the cooling lava of the
original molten flow and which had later been connected by man to form a
continuous subterranean corridor. The caves themselves were usually more
or less spherical in shape and the debris from the connecting
passageways had been utilized to fill the bottoms of them to the level
of the main floor of the passageway. The general trend of the tunnel was
upward from the point at which we had entered it, and there was a
constant draught of air rushing along it in the same direction in which
we were moving, assuring me that it was undoubtedly well ventilated for
its full length. The walls and ceiling were coated with a substance of
which radium was evidently one of the ingredients, since even after we
had lost sight of the entrance the passageway was well illuminated. We
had been moving along in silence for quite a little distance when I
finally addressed Nah-ee-lah.

“It must seem good,” I said, “to travel again this familiar tunnel of
your native city. I know how happy I should be were I thus approaching
my own birthplace.”

“I am glad to be returning to Laythe,” she said, “for many reasons, but
for one I am sorry, and as for this passageway it is scarcely more
familiar to me than to you, since I have traversed it but once before in
my life and that when I was a little girl and came here with my father
and his court upon the occasion of his periodical inspection of the
passageway, which is now practically never used.”

“If you are not familiar with the tunnel,” I asked, “are you sure that
there is no danger of our going astray at some fork or branch?”

“There is but the one passageway,” she replied, “which leads from the
crater to Laythe.”

“And how long is the tunnel?” I asked. “Will we soon enter the city?”

“No,” she replied, “it is a great distance from the crater to Laythe.”

We had covered some little distance at this time, possibly five or six
miles, and she had scarcely ceased speaking when a turn in the
passageway led us into a cave of larger proportions than any through
which we had previously passed and from the opposite side of which two
passageways diverged.

“I thought there were no branches,” I remarked.

“I do not understand it,” she said. “There is no branch from the tunnel
of Laythe.”

“Could it be possible that we are in the wrong tunnel?” I asked, “and
that this does not lead to Laythe?”

“A moment before I should have been sure that we were in the right
tunnel,” she replied, “but now, Julian, I do not know, for never had I
heard of any branch of our own tunnel.”

We had crossed the cave and were standing between the openings of the
two divergent passageways.

“Which one shall we take?” I asked, but again she shook her head.

“I do not know,” she replied.

“Listen!” I cautioned her. “What was that?” For I was sure that I had
heard a sound issuing from one of the tunnels.

We stood peering into an aperture which revealed about a hundred yards
of the passageway before an abrupt turn hid the continuation of it from
our view. We could hear what now resolved itself into the faint sound of
voices approaching us along the corridor, and then quite suddenly the
figure of a man appeared around the corner of the turn. Nah-ee-lah
leaped to one side out of sight, drawing me with her.

“A Kalkar!” she whispered. “Oh, Julian, if they find us we are lost.”

“If there is only one of them I can take care of him,” I said.

“There will be more than one,” she replied; “there will be many.”

“Then, let us return the way we came and make our way to the top of the
crater’s rim before they discover us. We can throw their hooked poles
into the crater, including the one which we use to ascend from the mouth
of the tunnel, thus effectually preventing any pursuit.”

“We cannot cross this room again to the tunnel upon the opposite side
without being apprehended,” she replied. “Our only hope is in hiding in
this other tunnel until they have passed and trusting to chance that we
meet no one within it.”