But an instant it took me to realize that the explosions were caused by
something that was being dropped into the city from above, and as I
looked up I saw a missile describing an arc above the palace, past which
it hurtled to a terrace far below, and at once I realized that the
missile had originated outside the city. Turning quickly, I ran across
the terrace to the outer side which overlooked the plateau upon which
the city stood. I could not repress an exclamation of astonishment at
the sight that greeted my eyes, for the surface of the plateau was alive
with warriors. Nah-ee-lah had followed me and was standing at my elbow.
“The Kalkars,” she said. “They have come again to reduce Laythe. It has
been long since they attempted it, many generations ago, but what is it,
Julian, that causes the great noise and the destruction and the fires
within Laythe?”

“It is this which fills me with surprise,” I said, “and not the presence
of the Kalkar warriors. Look! Nah-ee-lah,” and I pointed to a knoll
lying at the verge of the plateau, where, unless my eyes deceived me
badly, there was mounted a mortar which was hurling shells into the city
of Laythe. “And there, and there,” I continued, pointing to other
similar engines of destruction mounted at intervals. “The city is
surrounded with them, Nah-ee-lah. Have your people any knowledge of such
engines of warfare or of high explosives?” I demanded.

“Only in our legends are such things mentioned,” she replied. “It has
been ages since the inhabitants of Va-nah lost the art of manufacturing
such things.”

As we stood there talking, one of the Jemadar’s guards emerged from the
palace and approached us.

“Nah-ee-lah, Jemadav,” he cried, “there is one here who craves audience
with you and who says that if you listen to him you may save your city
from destruction.”

“Fetch him,” replied Nah-ee-lah. “We will receive him here.”

We had but a moment to wait when the guardsman returned with one of
Ko-tah’s captains.

“Nah-ee-lah, Jemadav,” he cried, when she had given him permission to
speak, “I come to you with a message from one who is Jemadar of
Jemadars, ruler of all Va-nah. If you would save your city and your
people, listen well.”

The girl’s eyes narrowed. “You are speaking to your Jemadav, fellow,”
she said. “Be careful, not only of your words, but of your tone.”

“I come but to save you,” replied the man sullenly. “The Kalkars have
discovered a great leader, and they have joined together from many
cities to overthrow Laythe. My master does not wish to destroy this
ancient city, and there is but one simple condition upon which he will
spare it.”

“Name your condition,” said Nah-ee-lah.

“If you will wed him, he will make Laythe the capital of Va-nah, and you
shall rule with him as Jemadav of Jemadavs.”

Nah-ee-lah’s lips curled in scorn. “And who is the presumptuous Kalkar
that dares aspire to the hand of Nah-ee-lah?” she demanded.

“He is no Kalkar, Jemadav,” replied the messenger. “He is one from
another world, who says that he knows you well and that he has loved you
long.”

“His name,” snapped Nah-ee-lah impatiently.

“He is called Or-tis, Jemadar of Jemadars.”

Nah-ee-lah turned toward me with elevated brows and a smile of
comprehension upon her face.

“Or-tis,” she repeated.

“Now, I understand, my Jemadav,” I said, “and I am commencing to have
some slight conception of the time that must have elapsed since I first
landed within Va-nah, for even since our escape from the Va-gas Orthis
has had time to discover the Kalkars and ingratiate himself among them,
to conspire with them for the overthrow of Laythe, and to manufacture
explosives and shells and the guns which are reducing Laythe this
moment. Even had I not heard the name, I might have guessed that it was
Orthis, for it is all so like him—ingrate, traitor, cur.”

“Go back to your master,” she said to the messenger, “and tell him that
Nah-ee-lah, Jemadav of Laythe, would as leave mate with Ga-va-go the
Va-gas as with him, and that Laythe will be happier destroyed and her
people wiped from the face of Va-nah than ruled by such a beast. I have
spoken. Go.”

The fellow turned and left us, being accompanied from Nah-ee-lah’s
presence by the guardsman who had fetched him, and whom Nah-ee-lah
commanded to return as soon as he had conducted the other outside the
palace gates. Then the girl turned to me: