The day following our discovery of the trail, I accordingly invited him
to accompany me, and we set out early, each armed with a revolver and a
rifle. I advised West, who automatically took command of the ship during
my absence, that we might be gone considerably longer than usual and
that he was to feel no apprehension and send out no relief party unless
we should be gone a full twenty-four hours, as I wished to follow up the
spoor we had discovered, learn where the trail led and have a look at
the animal that had made it.

I led the way directly to the spot at which we had found the trail,
about four miles down river from the ship and apparently in the heart of
dense forest.

The flying-toads darted from tree to tree about us, uttering their weird
and plaintive cries, while upon several occasions, as in the past, we
saw four-legged snakes such as we had seen upon the day of our landing.
Neither the toads nor the snakes bothered us, seeming only to wish to
avoid us.

Just before we came upon the trail, both Orthis and I thought we heard
the sound of footsteps ahead of us—something similar to that made by a
galloping animal—and when we came upon the trail a moment later it was
apparent to both of us that dust was hanging in the air and slowly
settling on the vegetation nearby. Something, therefore, had passed over
the trail but a minute or two before we arrived. A brief examination of
the spoor revealed the fact that it had been made by a three-toed animal
whose direction of travel was to our right and toward the river, at this
point some half mile from us.

I could not help but feel considerable inward excitement, and I was
sorry that one of the others had not been with me, for I never felt
perfectly at ease with Orthis. I had done considerable hunting in
various parts of the world where wild game still exists but I had never
experienced such a thrill as I did at the moment that I undertook to
stalk this unknown beast upon an unknown trail in an unknown world.
Where the trail would lead me, what I should find upon it, I never knew
from one step to another, and the lure of it because of that was
tremendous. The fact that there were almost nine million square miles of
this world for me to explore, and that no Earth Man had ever before set
foot upon an inch of it, helped a great deal to compensate for the fact
that I knew I could never return to my own Earth again.

The trail led to the edge of the river which at this point was very wide
and shallow. Upon the opposite shore, I could see the trail again
directly opposite and I knew therefore that this was a ford. Without
hesitating, I stepped into the river, and as I did so I glanced to my
left to see stretching before me as far as my eye could reach a vast
expanse of water. Here then I had stumbled upon the mouth of the river
and, beyond, a lunar sea.

The land upon the opposite side of the river was rolling and
grass-covered, but in so far as I could see, almost treeless. As I
turned my eyes from the sea back toward the opposite shore, I saw that
which caused me to halt in my tracks, cock my rifle and issue a cautious
warning to Orthis for silence, for there before us upon a knoll stood a
small horse-like animal.

It would have been a long shot, possibly five hundred yards, and I
should have preferred to have come closer but there was no chance to do
that now, for we were in the middle of the river in plain view of the
animal which stood there watching us intently. I had scarcely raised my
rifle, however, ere it wheeled and disappeared over the edge of the
knoll upon which it had been standing.

“What did it look like to you, Orthis?” I asked my companion.

“It was a good ways off,” he replied, “and I only just got my binoculars
on it as it disappeared, but I could have sworn that it wore a harness
of some sort. It was about the size of a small pony, I should say, but
it didn’t have a pony’s head.”

“It appeared tailless to me,” I remarked.

“I saw no tail,” said Orthis, “nor any ears or horns. It was a devilish
funny looking thing. I don’t understand it. There was something about
it—” he paused. “My God, sir, there was something about it that looked
human.”

“It gave me that same impression, too, Orthis, and I doubt if I should
have fired had I been able to cover it, for just at the instant that I
threw my rifle to my shoulder I felt that same strange impression that
you mention. There was something human about the thing.”

As we talked, we had been moving on across the ford which we found an
excellent one, the water at no time coming to our waists while the
current was scarcely appreciable. Finally, we stepped out on the
opposite shore and a moment later, far to the left, we caught another
glimpse of the creature that we had previously seen. It stood upon a
distant knoll, evidently watching us.