They had released my hands, but my feet were still bound and two Kalkars
squatted just outside the door of the hut to see that I did not escape.
I asked the slave woman for some warm water to wash my wounds and she
prepared it for me. Not only that, the kindly soul saw to my wounds
herself, and after they had been cleansed she applied a healing lotion
which greatly soothed them, and then she bound them as best she could. I
felt much refreshed by this, and with the food and drink in me was quite
happy, for had I not accomplished what my people had been striving after
for a hundred years—a foothold on the western coast? This first victory
had been greater than I had dared to hope, and if I could but escape and
rejoin my people I felt that I could lead them to the waters of the
ocean with scarce a halt while the Kalkars still were suffering the
demoralization of defeat.

It was while I was thinking these thoughts that a Kalkar chief entered
the hut. Beyond the doorway the score of warriors that had accompanied
him, waited.

“Come!” commanded the Kalkar, motioning me to arise.

I pointed to my tethered ankles.

“Cut his bonds,” he directed the slave woman.

When I was free, I arose and followed the Kalkar without. Here the guard
surrounded me and we marched away between avenues of splendid trees such
as I never had seen before, to a tent of the ancients, a partially
ruined structure of imposing height that spread over a great area of
ground. It was lighted upon the inside by many flares and there were
guards at the entrance and slaves holding other flares.

They led me into a great chamber that must be much as the ancients left
it, though I had seen from the outside that in other places the roof of
the tent had fallen in and its walls were crumbling. There were many
Kalkars in this place, and at the far end of the room, upon a platform,
one sat alone on a huge, carved bench—a bench with a high back and
arms.

I was led before this man. He had a thin face and a long, thin nose, and
cruel lips and crafty eyes. His features, however, were good. He might
have passed in any company as a full-blood Yank. My guard halted me in
front of him.

“This is he, Jemadar,” said the chief who had fetched me.

“Who are you?” demanded the Jemadar, addressing me.

His tone did not please me. It was unpleasant and dictatorial. I am not
accustomed to that, even from equals, and a Julian has no superiors. I
looked upon him as scum. Therefore I did not reply.

He repeated his question angrily. I turned to the Kalkar chief who stood
at my elbow. “Tell this man that he is addressing a Julian,” I said,
“and that I do not like his manner. Let him ask for it in a more civil
tone if he wishes information.”

The eyes of the Jemadar narrowed angrily. He half rose from his bench.
“A Julian!” he exclaimed. “You are all Julians—but you are _the_
Julian. You are the Great Chief of the Julians. Tell me,” his tone
became suddenly civil, almost ingratiating, “is it not true that you are
_the_ Julian, The Red Hawk who led the desert hordes upon us?”

“I am Julian 20th, The Red Hawk,” I replied; “and you?”

“I am Or-tis, the Jemadar,” he replied.

“It has been long since an Or-tis and a Julian met,” I said.

“Heretofore they always have met as enemies,” he replied. “I have sent
for you to offer peace and friendship. For five hundred years we have
fought uselessly and senselessly because two of our forebears hated one
another. You are the 20th Julian, I am the 16th Or-tis. Never before
have we seen one another; yet we must be enemies. How silly!”

“There can be no friendship between a Julian and an Or-tis,” I replied,
coldly.

“There can be peace,” he said, “and friendship will come later, maybe
long after you and I are dead. There is room in this great, rich country
for us all. Go back to your people. I will send an escort with you and
rich presents. Tell them that the Kalkars would share their country with
the Yanks. You will rule half of it and I will rule the other half. If
the power of either is threatened, the other will come to his aid with
men and horses. We can live in peace and our people will prosper. What
say you?”

“I sent you my answer yesterday,” I told him. “It is the same today—the
only peace that you and I can share is the peace of death. There can be
but one ruler for this whole country and he will be a Julian—if not I,
the next in line. There is not room in all the world for both Kalkar and
Yank. For three hundred years we have been driving you toward the sea.
Yesterday we started upon the final drive that will not stop until the
last of you has been driven from the world you ruined. That is my
answer, Kalkar.”