We had left the forest, and were returning to the village to our huts
when, near the large hut occupied by Ga-va-go, we came suddenly upon
Orthis. At the sight of us together he scowled.

“If I were you,” he said to me, “I would not associate with her too
much. It may arouse the displeasure of Ga-va-go.”

It was the first time that Orthis had spoken to me since we had occupied
this village. I did not like his tone or his manner.

“You will please to mind your own business, Orthis,” I said to him, and
continued on with Nah-ee-lah. I saw the man’s eyes narrow malignantly,
and then he turned, and entered the hut of Ga-va-go, the chief of the
No-vans.

Every time I went to the river, I had to pass in the vicinity of
Nah-ee-lah’s hut. It was a little out of my way, but I always made the
slight detour in the hope of meeting her, though I had never entered her
hut nor called for her, since she had never invited me and realizing her
position, I did not wish to intrude. I was of course ignorant of the
social customs of her people, and feared offending her accidentally.

It chanced that the next time that I walked down to the lake shore,
following our stroll in the woods, I made my usual detour that I might
pass by the hut of Nah-ee-lah. As I came near I heard voices, one of
which I recognized as that of Nah-ee-lah, and the other, a man’s voice.
The girl’s tones were angry and imperious.

“Leave my presence, creature!” were the first words that I could
distinguish, and then the man’s voice.

“Come,” he said, ingratiatingly. “Let us be friends. Come to my hut, and
you will be safe, for Ga-va-go is my friend.” The voice was the voice of
Orthis.

“Go!” she ordered him again. “I would as soon lie with Ga-va-go as with
you.”

“Know then,” cried Orthis, angrily, “that you will go, whether you wish
it or not, for Ga-va-go has given you to me. Come!” and then he must
have seized her, for I heard her cry out, “How dare you lay hands upon
me, Nah-ee-lah, princess of Laythe!”

I was close beside the entrance to the hut now, and I did not wait to
hear any more, but thrusting the hanging aside entered. There they were,
in the center of the single room, Orthis struggling to drag the girl
toward the opening while she resisted and struck at him. Orthis’ back
was toward me and he did not know that there was another in the hut
until I had stepped up behind him and grasping him roughly by the
shoulder, had jerked him from the girl and swung him about facing me.

“You cad,” I said; “get out of here before I kick you out, and don’t
ever let me hear of you molesting this girl again.”

His eyes narrowed, and he looked at me with an ugly light in them.
“Since boyhood, you have cheated me out of all that I wished. You ruined
my life on earth, but now, conditions are reversed. The tables are
turned. Believe me, then, when I tell you that if you interfere with me
you sign your own death warrant. It is only by my favor that you live at
all. If I gave the word Ga-va-go would destroy you at once. Go then to
your hut and stop your meddling in the affairs of others—a habit that
you developed in a most flagrant degree on Earth, but which will avail
you nothing here within the Moon. The woman is mine. Ga-va-go has given
her to me. Even if her father should fail to send the ransom her life
shall be spared as long as I desire her. Your interference then can only
result in your death, and do her no good, for provided you are
successful in keeping me from her, you would be but condemning her to
death in the event that her father does not send the ransom, and
Ga-va-go has told me that there is little likelihood of that, since it
is scarcely possible that his messengers will be able to deliver
Ga-va-go’s demands to Sagroth.”

“You have heard him,” I said, turning to the girl. “What are your wishes
in the matter. Perhaps he speaks the truth.”

“I have no doubt but that he speaks the truth,” she replied, “but know,
strangers, that the honor of a princess of Laythe is dearer than her
life.”

“Very well, Orthis,” I said to the man. “You have heard her. Now get
out.”

He was almost white with anger, and for a moment I thought that he was
going to attack me, but he was ever a coward, and contenting himself
with giving me a venomous look, he walked from the hut without another
word.

I turned to Nah-ee-lah, after the hanging had dropped behind Orthis. “It
is too bad,” I said, “that with all your suffering at the hands of the
Va-gas, you should also be annoyed by one who is practically of your own
species.”