The Wolf is armed, as are the rest of us, with a light lance about eight
feet in length, a knife and a straight, two-edged sword. A short, stout
bow is slung beneath his right stirrup leather and a quiver of arrows is
at his saddle bow.

The blades of his sword and his knife and the metal of his lance tip
come from a far place called Kolrado and are made by a tribe that is
famous because of the hardness and the temper of the metal of its
blades. The Utaws bring us metal, also, but theirs is inferior and we
use it only for the shoes that protect our horses’ feet from the cutting
sands and the rocks of our hard and barren country.

The Kolrados travel many days to reach us, coming once in two years.
They pass, unmolested, through the lands of many tribes because they
bring what none might otherwise have and what we need in our
never-ending crusade against the Kalkars. That is the only thread that
holds together the scattered clans and tribes that spread east and north
and south beyond the ken of man. All are animated by the same
purpose—to drive the last of the Kalkars into the sea.

From the Kolrados we get meager news of clans beyond them toward the
rising sun. Far, far to the east, they say, so far that in a lifetime no
man might reach it, lies another great sea, and that there, as here upon
the world’s western edge, a few Kalkars are making their last stand. All
the rest of the world has been won back by the people of our own
blood—by Americans.

We are always glad to see the Kolrados come, for they bring us news of
other peoples, and we welcome the Utaws, too, though we are not a
friendly people, killing all others who come among us, for fear,
chiefly, that they may be spies sent by the Kalkars. It is handed down
from father to son that this was not always so, and that once the people
of the world went to and fro safely from place to place and that then
all spoke the same language; but now it is different. The Kalkars
brought hatred and suspicion among us, until now we trust only the
members of our own clans and tribes.

The Kolrados, from coming often among us, we can understand, and they
can understand us, by means of a few words and many signs, though when
they speak their own language among themselves we cannot understand
them, except for an occasional word that is like one of ours. They say
that when the last of the Kalkars is driven from the world we must live
at peace with one another, but I am afraid that that will never come to
pass, for who would go through life without breaking a lance or dipping
his sword point now and again into the blood of a stranger? Not The
Wolf, I swear, nor no more The Red Hawk. By The Flag! I take more
pleasure in meeting a stranger upon a lonely trail than in meeting a
friend, for I cannot set my lance against a friend and feel the swish of
the wind as Red Lightning bears me swiftly down upon the prey as I
crouch in the saddle, nor thrill to the shock as we strike.

I am The Red Hawk. I am but twenty, yet the fierce chiefs of a hundred
fierce clans bow to my will. I am a Julian—the twentieth Julian—and
from this year, 2434, I can trace my line back five hundred and
thirty-four years to Julian 1st, who was born in 1896. From father to
son, by word of mouth, has been handed down to me the story of every
Julian, and there is no blot upon the shield of one in all that long
line, nor shall there be any blot upon the shield of Julian 20th. From
my fifth year to my tenth I learned, word for word, as had my father
before me, the deeds of my forebears, and to hate the Kalkars and the
tribe of Or-tis. This, with riding, was my schooling. From ten to
fifteen I learned to use lance and sword and knife, and on my sixteenth
birthday I rode forth with the other men—a warrior.

As I sat there this day, looking down upon the land of the accursed
Kalkars, my mind went back to the deeds of the 15th Julian, who had
driven the Kalkars across the desert and over the edge of these
mountains into the valley below just one hundred years before I was
born, and I turned to The Wolf and pointed down toward the green groves
and the distant hills and off beyond to where the mysterious ocean lay.

“For a hundred years they have held us here,” I said. “It is too long.”

“It is too long,” replied The Wolf.

“When the rains are over The Red Hawk leads his people into the land of
plenty.”

The Rock raised his spear and shook it savagely toward the valley far
below. The scalp-lock fastened just below its metal-shod tip trembled in
the wind. “When the rains are over!” cried The Rock. His fierce eyes
glowed with the fire of fanaticism.

“The green of the groves we will dye red with their blood,” cried The
Rattlesnake.

“With our swords, not our mouths,” I said, and wheeled Red Lightning
toward the east. The Coyote laughed and the others joined with him as we
wound downward out of the hills toward the desert.