Now our happiness and peace had fled—it was always thus—and there was
no hope. I dared not look at Juana after what I had said; but then, had
she not said the same thing? We all talked lamely for a few minutes and
then Father and Mother rose to go, and a moment later Jim and Mollie
went indoors. I turned to Juana. She stood with her eyes upon the ground
and a pretty flush upon her cheek. Something surged up in me—a mighty
force, that I had never known, possessed me, and before I realized what
it impelled me to do I had seized Juana in my arms and was covering her
face and lips with kisses.

She fought to free herself; but I would not let her go.

“You are mine!” I cried. “You are my woman. I have said it—you have
said. You are my woman. God, how I love you!”

She lay quiet then, and let me kiss her, and presently her arms stole
about my neck and her lips sought mine in an interval that I had drawn
them away, and they moved upon my lips in a gentle caress, that was yet
palpitant with passion. This was a new Juana—a new and very wonderful
Juana.

“You really love me?” she asked at last—“I heard you say it!”

“I have loved you from the moment I saw you looking up at me from
beneath the hellhound,” I replied.

“You have kept it very much of a secret to yourself then,” she teased
me. “If you loved me so, why did you not tell me? Were you going to keep
it from me all my life, or—were you afraid? Brother Or-tis was not
afraid to say that he wanted me—is my man, my Julian, less brave than
he?”

I knew that she was only teasing me, and so I stopped her mouth with
kisses and then: “Had you been a hellhound, or Soor, or even Or-tis,” I
said, “I could have told you what I thought of you; but being Juana and
a little girl the words would not come. I am a great coward.”

We talked until it was time to go home to supper and I took her hand to
lead her to my house. “But first,” I said, “you must tell Mollie and Jim
what has happened, and that you will not be back. For a while we can
live under my father’s roof; but as soon as may be I will get permission
from the teivos to take the adjoining land and work it and then I shall
build a house.”

She drew back and flushed. “I cannot go with you yet,” she said.

“What do you mean?” I asked. “You are mine!”

“We have not been married,” she whispered.

“But no one is married,” I reminded her. “Marriage is against the law.”

“My mother was married,” she told me. “You and I can be married. We have
a church and a preacher. Why cannot he marry us? He is not ordained
because there is none to ordain him; but being the head of the only
church that he knows of or that we know of, it is evident that he can be
ordained only by God and who knows but that he already has been
ordained!”

I tried to argue her out of it, as now that heaven was so near I had no
mind to wait three weeks to attain it; but she would not argue—she just
shook her head and at last I saw that she was right and gave in—as I
would have had to do in any event.

I went to Pthav, who was one of our representatives in the teivos, and
asked him to procure for me permission to work the vacant land adjoining
my father’s. The land all belonged to the community; but each man was
allowed what he could work as long as there was plenty, and there was
more than plenty for us all.

Pthav was very ugly—he seemed to have forgotten that I had saved his
child’s life—and said that he did not know what he could do for
me—that I had acted very badly to General Or-tis and was in disfavor,
beside being under suspicion in another matter.

“What has General Or-tis to do with the distribution of land by the
teivos?” I asked. “Because he wants my woman will the teivos deny me my
rights?”

Pthav’s woman came in while I was talking and recognized me; but she
said nothing to me other than to mention that the child had asked for
me. Pthav scowled at this and ordered her from the room just as a man
might order a beast around. It was nothing to me, though, as the woman
was a renegade anyway.

Finally I demanded of Pthav that he obtain the concession for me unless
he could give me some valid reason for refusing.

“I will ask it,” he said, finally; “but you will not get it—be sure of
that.”