Today, this tenth of June, 1967, there was published broadcast to the
world the first message from Mars. It was dated Helium, Barsoom, and
merely extended greetings to a sister world and wished us well. But it
was the beginning.

The Blue Room of _The Harding_ was, I presume, but typical of every
other gathering place in the civilized world. Men and women were eating,
drinking, laughing, singing and talking. The flier was racing through
the air at an altitude of little over a thousand feet. Its engines,
motivated wirelessly from power plants thousands of miles distant, drove
it noiselessly and swiftly along its overnight pathway between Chicago
and Paris.

I had of course crossed many times, but this instance was unique because
of the epoch-making occasion which the passengers were celebrating, and
so I sat at the table longer than usual, watching my fellow diners,
with, I imagine, a slightly indulgent smile upon my lips, since—I
mention it in no spirit of egotism—it had been my high privilege to
assist in the consummation of a hundred years of effort that had borne
fruit that day. I looked around at my fellow diners and then back to my
table companion.

He was a fine looking chap, lean and bronzed—one need not have noted
the Air Corps overseas service uniform, the Admiral’s stars and anchors
or the wound stripes to have guessed that he was a fighting man; he
looked it, every inch of him, and there were a full seventy-two inches.

We talked a little—about the great victory and the message from Mars,
of course, and though he often smiled I noticed an occasional shadow of
sadness in his eyes and once, after a particularly mad outburst of
pandemonium on the part of the celebrators, he shook his head,
remarking: “Poor devils!” and then: “It is just as well—let them enjoy
life while they may. I envy them their ignorance.”

“What do you mean?” I asked.

He flushed a little and then smiled. “Was I speaking aloud?” he asked.

I repeated what he had said and he looked steadily at me for a long
minute before he spoke again. “Oh, what’s the use!” he exclaimed, almost
petulantly; “you wouldn’t understand and of course you wouldn’t believe.
I do not understand it myself; but I have to believe because I know—I
know from personal observation. God! if you could have seen what I have
seen.”

“Tell me,” I begged; but he shook his head dubiously.

“Do you realize that there is no such thing as Time?” he asked
suddenly—“That man has invented Time to suit the limitations of his
finite mind, just as he has named another thing, that he can neither
explain nor understand, Space?”

“I have heard of such a theory,” I replied; “but I neither believe nor
disbelieve—I simply do not know.”

I thought I had him started and so I waited as I have read in fiction
stories is the proper way to entice a strange narrative from its
possessor. He was looking beyond me and I imagined that the expression
of his eyes denoted that he was witnessing again the thrilling scenes of
the past. I must have been wrong, though—in fact I was quite sure of it
when he next spoke.

“If that girl isn’t careful,” he said, “the thing will upset and give
her a nasty fall—she is much too near the edge.”

I turned to see a richly dressed and much dishevelled young lady busily
dancing on a table-top while her friends and the surrounding diners
cheered her lustily.

My companion arose. “I have enjoyed your company immensely,” he said,
“and I hope to meet you again. I am going to look for a place to sleep
now—they could not give me a stateroom—I don’t seem to be able to get
enough sleep since they sent me back.” He smiled.

“Miss the gas shells and radio bombs, I suppose,” I remarked.

“Yes,” he replied, “just as a convalescent misses smallpox.”

“I have a room with two beds,” I said. “At the last minute my secretary
was taken ill. I’ll be glad to have you share the room with me.”

He thanked me and accepted my hospitality for the night—the following
morning we would be in Paris.

As we wound our way among the tables filled with laughing, joyous
diners, my companion paused beside that at which sat the young woman who
had previously attracted his attention. Their eyes met and into hers
came a look of puzzlement and half-recognition. He smiled frankly in her
face, nodded and passed on.