I dismounted and approached them, my hand held out toward them as is the
custom of my people in greeting friends, with whom we always clasp hands
after an absence, or when meeting friendly strangers for the first time.
They did not seem to understand my intentions and drew back, fitting
arrows to their bows.

I dropped my hand and smiled, at a loss as how best to reassure them.
The smile must have done it, for immediately the old man’s face broke
into a smile.

“You are not a Kalkar,” he said; “they never smile at us.” He lowered
his weapon, his example being followed by the others. “Tie your horse to
a tree. We will give you food.” He turned toward the tents and called to
the women to come out and prepare food.

I dropped my reins to the ground, which is all the tying that Red
Lightning requires, and advanced toward the little men, and when I had
thrown aside my Kalkar coat and bonnet they crowded around me with
questions and comment.

“No, he is not a Kalkar,” said one. “His cloak and bonnet are Kalkar,
but not his other garments.”

“I was captured by the Kalkars,” I explained, “and to escape I covered
myself with this cloak which I had taken from a Kalkar that I killed.”

A stream of women and children were now issuing from the tents, whose
capacity must have been taxed beyond their limit. The children were like
tiny toys, so diminutive were they, and, like their fathers and mothers,
quite naked, nor was there among them all the sign of an ornament or
decoration of any nature. They crowded around me, filled with
good-natured curiosity, and I could see that they were a joyous, kindly
little people; but even as I stood there encircled by them I could
scarce bring myself to believe in their existence, rather thinking that
I was the victim of a capricious dream, for never had I seen or heard of
such a race of tiny humans. As I had this closer and better opportunity
to study them, I saw that they were not of the same race as the slaves,
or In-juns, but were of a lighter shade of brown, with differently
shaped heads and slanting eyes. They were a handsome little people and
there was about the children that which was at once laughable and
appealing, so that one could not help but love them.

The women busied themselves making fire and bringing meat—a leg of
venison, and flour for bread, with fresh fruits, such as apricots,
strawberries and oranges. They chattered and laughed all the time,
casting quick glances at me and then giggling behind their hands. The
children and the dogs were always under foot, but no one seemed to mind
them and no one spoke a cross word, and often I saw the men snatch up a
child and caress it. They seemed a very happy people—quite unlike any
other peoples who have lived long in a Kalkar country. I mentioned this
fact to the chief and asked him how they could be so happy under the
cruel domination of the Kalkars.

“We do not live under their rule,” he replied. “We are a free people.
When they attempted to harass us, we made war upon them.”

“You made war upon the Kalkars?” I demanded, incredulously.

“Upon those who came into our hills,” he replied. “We never leave the
hills. We know every rock and tree and trail and cave, and being a very
little people and accustomed to living always in the hills we can move
rapidly from place to place. Long ago the Kalkars used to send warriors
to kill us, but they could never find us, though first from one side and
then from another our arrows fell among them, killing many. We were all
about them but they could not see us. Now they leave us alone. The hills
are ours from the great Kalkar camp to the sea and up the sea for many
marches. The hills furnish us with all that we require and we are
happy.”

“What do you call yourselves?” I asked. “From where do you come?”

“We are Nipons,” he replied. “I am Saku, chief of this district. We have
always been here in these hills. The first Nipon, our ancestor, was a
most honorable giant who lived upon an island far, far out in the middle
of the sea. His name was Mik-do. He lives there now. When we die we go
there to live with him. That is all.”

“The Kalkars no longer bother you?” I asked.

“Since the time of my father’s father they have not come to fight with
us,” replied Saku. “We have no enemies other than Raban, the giant, who
lives on the other side of the hills. He comes sometimes to hunt us with
his dogs and his slaves. Those whom he kills or captures, he eats. He is
a very terrible creature, is Raban. He rides a great horse and covers
himself with iron so that our arrows and our spears do not harm him. He
is three times as tall as we.”

I assumed that, after the manner of the ignorant, he was referring to an
imaginary personification of some greatly feared manifestation of
natural forces—storm, fire or earthquake, perhaps—probably fire,
though, since his reference to the devouring of his people by this giant
suggested fire, and so dismissed the subject from my mind.