Jack, like the investigating fellow that he had always proved in
the past quickly snatched out his knife, opened the big blade, and
commenced scratching the back of the dull-looking brick. Immediately
they caught a bright sheen wherever the edge of the blade pursued its
activities.

“You’re right, Captain, it’s gold!” gasped Ballyhoo, grinning as though
he had seen one of his most wonderful dreams come true.

They all stared at the bullion. Perhaps through Oscar’s imaginative
mind there may have flashed a strange picture just then. Remembering
all he had ever read concerning the doings of those old-time worthies
who defied the perils of the sea in those early days, he saw this same
precious metal handled by men in odd, picturesque dress, carrying long
swords, and wearing hats adorned with waving feathers--those reckless
conquistadores, in fact, who raided both Mexico and Peru under such
leaders as Cortez and Pizarro.

Possibly for a brief space the scroll of time seemed to unroll before
the boy’s vision, and he peopled that float with those ancient
worthies, all carrying just such weighty bricks of gold, seized from
the stores of the poor natives, and meant to be carried across the sea
to Spain.

Then he came to himself with a shock. The presence of that modern
miracle boat capable of descending to the bottom of the sea told him
that he was living in the Twentieth Century, and not away back there in
those primitive days.

Yes, and he also remembered something else--those three spies in the
little motor launch, who had evidently been watching their operations
until assured that they possessed accurate knowledge of the location of
the lost galleon--they were even now on the way to carry the news to
Captain Badger.

“But we have come to give you warning, Captain!” he hurriedly
exclaimed, while, of course, Jack listened eagerly, being almost eaten
up with curiosity to know what it really was had frightened his two
chums.

“What’s that you say, lad?” cried the skipper, recovering the precious
bullion.

“We made a discovery while ashore,” Oscar went on. “As we drew near the
other end of the Key we heard the sound of oars, and then saw a boat
that had just left land.”

“Then there _were_ people on the island after all,” snapped the
captain, frowning, as though now it was too late, he regretted that he
had not gone ashore in the first place, and closely examined every rod
of ground before commencing operations; for, as Ballyhoo afterwards
remarked, Captain Shooks was like most folks whose “hindsight was a
heap better than their foresight.”

“Yes, and they were no turtle hunters or spongers either,” blurted
out Ballyhoo, desirous of having a hand in divulging the great news.
“The boat was a small launch that could be rowed, and had one of
those overboard motors at the stern. Yes, and when it swerved Oscar
here, through our glasses, saw the name painted at the bow. It was
_Dauntless_, Captain; what d’ye think of that, now?”

The gruff skipper said something pretty strong, but it seemed to
express the state of his feelings to a fraction. From the way in which
he glanced down at the relic just recovered from the wreck, it was
plain to be seen he felt doubly furious to have such a thing as this
happen just when they had commenced to strike “pay dirt.”

“They’ve been keeping tabs on us, then, the snakes!” he growled.

“All day long, I reckon,” admitted Oscar, “and finally, after making
sure that we meant business, and had found a wreck of some kind,
they’ve started off to tell that Badger man, so he can come bullying
around here, and chase us away by a show of force.”

Ballyhoo looked disconsolate. Already in imagination he possibly saw
the black steam yacht tied up to their float, with divers going down to
loot the prize at the bottom of the sea, which had lain there hundreds
of years, and might have continued to defy all the efforts of ambitious
mankind to locate the same only for the enterprise of the “Argonaut
Submarine Diving-Boat Company.”

“Which way were they heading?” demanded the skipper, grinding his teeth
hard together, and looking as though he could “bite a ten-penny nail in
two,” as Ballyhoo would have put it.

“Trying to keep the land between themselves and our float here,”
explained Oscar, “but we guessed they meant to swing around some, and
put for that other Key after they thought they were so far away we
wouldn’t hear the putter of the motor when muffled.”