XVI LEFT HOLDING THE BAG


“There she is!” exclaimed Ballyhoo, just as soon as they began to pass
out from behind the island, and pointing as he spoke.

It was the _Dauntless_ without any question, and the steam yacht was
also heading directly toward the Key behind which all those recent
operations had been taking place. No doubt there must have been quite
a flutter of excitement aboard the other craft when the submarine was
thus discovered coming into view. When they also caught the sunshine
glinting from the wicked-looking rapid-fire gun that Captain Shooks had
had brought up from below, and placed forward on the deck, possibly
they would be apt to think twice before deciding to make any attack
upon the rival treasure hunting craft.

The skipper appeared to be heartily pleased when he announced that he
could recognize Captain Badger standing there near the wheelhouse of
the steam yacht, and staring through his glasses at them.

“I’d give half a year’s wages,” he affirmed, “just to hear the hot
stuff he’ll get rid of when he realizes the little trick we’ve played
on him. The man who gets the better of the sly old fox has to rise
pretty early in the morning. I’ve owed him a grudge of long years’
standing, and now we’re even again.”

“Do you suppose he’ll keep on after us, or start for the island?” asked
Jack.

“Oh! he must be wondering why he didn’t get any report from that gang
of spies he left on Coco Key,” explained the captain, grinning amiably,
“and so the first thing he’ll be apt to do will be to take a run in
there.”

“Then what will happen, sir?” continued Jack.

“Why, when he hears from those late prisoners of ours what took place,
and how they’ve been kept aboard our craft while we worked all night
long raising some of those grand gold bricks they saw us handling, I
reckon nothing will do Badger but that his divers must go down and take
a look around. That business will delay him a day or two, during which
time we can be making a port, and laying aboard another supply of the
stuff necessary for our work.”

“I wonder if that’s the last we’ll be apt to see of the _Dauntless_?”
remarked Ballyhoo Jones, as they looked back over the foamy wake of the
submarine, and saw the other craft still heading for the island.

Oscar shook his head in the negative.

“I could wish it might be,” he went on to say, the skipper’s having
ducked down to see about something in connection with the engines that
did not exactly please him; “but Captain Shooks seemed to figure that
we’ll be troubled off and on during our entire cruise by those fellows.”

“Then one thing is plain,” asserted Jack; “they’ve managed to get hold
of a duplicate of our itinerary in some way, and know the different
places we mean to visit, even if ignorant of the clues we have by which
we hope to run onto the wrecks. On this account they are helpless
beyond a certain point, and can only expect to catch us at work, and
run us off, so as to seize the prize themselves.”

“Well, here’s hoping they’ll have a warm session doing that same,”
jeered Ballyhoo. “And if ever it comes to a scrap, believe me, that
little beaut of a quick-firer over yonder is ready to give a good
account of itself. Captain Shooks has been through the mill too
often to knuckle down to such a pirate as that _Badger_,” and as he
pronounced the name he snapped his fingers blithely, as though holding
the notorious adventurer in contempt.

Shortly afterwards they saw the steam yacht turn the end of the
island, when, for the first time, those aboard doubtless discovered
that suggestive float, with their trio of men upon the same. The boys
pictured the scene that would follow, and how, inspired by the fairy
tales these worthies could spin, of the wonderful ingots they had seen
hauled to the surface from the wreck, Badger would hasten to send his
divers down, in the hopes of having frightened the others away before
the mine was wholly exhausted.

“Won’t he be a furious man, though,” Ballyhoo laughingly said, as they
talked this over, “when he realizes that we only left him, as our
skipper remarked, an empty bag to hold?”

“It’s beginning to kick up considerable out here, for one thing,”
announced Jack, as the squat undersea boat began to pitch more or less,
and the waves could be seen running higher and higher.

“Yes, and once again you can notice clouds gathering over there,” Oscar
added, as he swept his hand around to indicate the direction. “We may
run into another storm before the day is much older.”