“We’ll just tie your hands behind your backs, my friends,” he told
the trio, “for I wouldn’t like to tempt you to get in worse trouble.
You can sit here a little while, and I’ll see that the cargo hold
is arranged for your accommodation. You’ll have to get used to the
darkness, for I’ll give you no light except a hand torch to use when
you are being fed. That goes, you understand?”

None of the three made any attempt to rebuff the sailor who brought
stout cord and fastened their wrists behind their backs. They
understood that any foolishness on their part would only arouse the
tiger in the skipper, causing a frown to take the place of that smile.

Meanwhile, those on the float were working industriously away. One of
the divers had gone down again, and the other was sitting there with
his helmet removed, taking in great draughts of fresh air, and looking
to the time when he might be called on to once again go down.

While the captain was still below with a couple of his crew,
superintending the arrangements in the hold that had contained the
barrels and planks, it happened that the diver, who was down, gave a
signal, and those on the float commenced hauling at a rope.

“Hello! something’s coming up!” exclaimed Ballyhoo; and with that all
of them crowded to the side of the little deck to watch, the three
prisoners as well as Oscar and his chums.

The men had no trouble as long as the bag was in the water, but as soon
as they attempted to raise it to the float it became necessary for both
to exert themselves to the utmost.

Then the stout sack was turned inside-out, and three of those
dull-looking, brick-shaped bars came tumbling out. Oscar instantly
glanced at the face of Anstey. He saw the other stare as though he
could hardly believe his eyes, for, of course, a man of his varied
experience knew without being told what those singular looking objects
must be.

“By thunder! you _did_ hit the cache, didn’t you?” he exclaimed, his
eyes fairly sparkling with avarice, as he fixed them upon those three
dull-looking bricks that he knew would mean a nice little fortune for
any one lucky enough to get them in his possession.

Just then the captain appeared, coming up from below. He frowned when
he saw how accident had revealed more than he wanted the prisoners to
know. However, it could not be helped now, since the “cat was out of
the bag.” And if his plans carried as he expected, this information
would never reach Badger until it was too late to profit him, since he
must only find a plundered hulk left behind, as the treasure hunters
sailed for their next destination.

So the three men were ordered to follow him below, their hands being
once more freed from the bonds. Captain Shooks watched their every
movement, and made no bones of showing a pistol he carried.

Later on he came up again, and looked satisfied that he had gotten rid
of a nuisance.

“They’ll not be able to break out of the cargo hold, I’m thinking,”
he told the boys, who, by their demeanor, were expecting some sort of
explanation from him, which the obliging skipper was only too willing
to give.

“How long do you think we will be able to work here without being
bothered by that old piratical cutthroat, Badger?” asked Ballyhoo, who
did not seem at all particular how he called names.

“Well, that’s impossible to say,” he was told by Captain Shooks. “They
evidently mean to lie low, and trust to these chaps to let ’em know if
anything interesting happens. We’ll work like troopers to complete our
job. I’ll take my turn at it, too. And all the while we’ll have some
one on guard to let us know if any craft shows up. If it looks bad,
and we still feel there are things to be got at down below, we’ll
dismantle the float and take a dive before they get here. At the worst
we can run for it, and fight if hard pushed.”

Apparently, Captain Shooks had the situation well in hand. He did not
intend to yield a single point to the enemy if he could help it. And
the more Ballyhoo saw of the skipper of the _Argonaut_ the better he
liked him.

“If that slick article of a Badger is any improvement on our captain,”
he told the others, as they sat there watching Shooks getting ready
to equip himself in the armor of the diver who had just come to the
surface after an exhausting time of it below, “he must be a holy
terror, that’s what; because the skipper of our boat seems to be right
there with the goods, every time. Oscar, didn’t I hear you saying you’d
like mighty much to go down in one of those suits, and see what the old
hulk looks like at close quarters?”

“Yes, and later on this afternoon, if the skipper is willing, I’m
meaning to try one little trip. I may not be as good in the water as
you, Ballyhoo, but I’m tall and strong, and think I could stand my turn
playing diver.”