He too carried a glass which he quickly focussed on the black steam
yacht that was evidently capable of making much faster time than the
low _Argonaut_, often almost awash.

“We’ve about made up our minds, Captain,” remarked Ballyhoo, who had
struck up quite an intimate acquaintance with the commander, after his
frank, confiding fashion, “that yonder vessel might be the _Dauntless_,
our rival in the salvage trade. Were we right about that, sir?”

“It’s the _Dauntless_, sure enough,” the captain told them, “and
they’re holding in as if they’d like to shadow us all the way down to
where we’re going.”

“Oh! could they do that?” demanded Ballyhoo, in dismay.

“Well, if you’ve ever tried to clap your finger on a flea,” laughed the
old mariner, “you’d know what it means to keep tabs on a boat that can
duck under the surface of the sea, and stay there for ten hours, moving
all the while.”

Captain Barnaby Shooks somehow did not seem to talk as most sea
captains do in stories. He never once said “shiver my timbers” or used
any similar phrase that was calculated to stamp him as a nautical man.
Perhaps this arose from the fact that many years had elapsed since
last he trod the deck of a genuine sailing vessel. With the gradual
disappearance of the full-rigged ships, the brigs, and the barques, all
that peculiar language is going out of date. Mechanics have taken the
places of the old-time sailors accustomed to clambering up the shrouds,
and standing on the yards of a ship reeling in an eighty mile gale.

When later on, after the sun had set, the boys prepared to go down
below for supper, that black steam yacht was still on their lee
quarter, and apparently bound to keep within sighting distance.

“Goodness gracious!” Ballyhoo was remarking the last thing before he
crept down the steep little ladder leading into the conning tower, from
which place they could reach the lower parts of the queer vessel, “I
only hope they don’t mean to ram us in the night-time, and so get rid
of a dangerous rival.”

“Not much danger of that,” Oscar assured him. “Captain Shooks will
keep a faithful watch every minute of the time. And besides, I’ve got
a sneaking suspicion that those fellows don’t know all we do about the
location of sunken treasure, also that their plan is to spy on us, and
then steal our thunder.”

They did not go on deck again after partaking of the evening meal in
the little saloon devoted to cabin purposes, in which, as Ballyhoo
said, was not room to “whirl a cat around by the tail.” The night air
was cold, and the blackness would prevent them from seeing anything
worth while.

None of them secured much sleep during that first night. Everything
was against it, for their quarters were terribly cramped, and the air
anything but fresh, even though the boat continued to remain upon the
surface of the water all through the night.

“Whee! just imagine what it’s going to be when we’re down under the
surface of the sea,” said Ballyhoo, at one time, as they prepared to
lie down in their bunks, placed above each other in a tier.

“Oh! you can get used to most anything in time,” Jack assured him, “if
only you make up your mind that way. Always think of something that’s a
whole lot worse, and it’s wonderful how satisfied you soon feel.”

The boat rolled somewhat later on in the night, and Oscar, being awake,
made up his mind that no doubt they were coming closer to the wide
mouth of the great bay, so that they now encountered the long inward
sweep of the ocean’s heaving billows.

Sure enough, when, after awakening to find that it was morning, for
light came in through the heavy glass observation bull’s-eyes arranged
in numerous places, the boys upon reaching the deck again discovered
that they could look far out to sea, as the submarine had already
passed Fortress Monroe and was now awaiting the coming of a cutter
from a black destroyer carrying the U. S. flag, that had shot out to
overtake them.

An officer came aboard, and was shown down into the captain’s
diminutive cabin, where no doubt he looked over the ship’s papers,
asked many questions concerning the proposed voyage, which must have
interested him considerably, and finally said “good-bye and good luck”
to the smiling skipper.

Then the engines once more began to throb, and the boat to quiver with
the energy they displayed. The boys, looking back toward the beautiful
shores they were leaving, again had their thoughts turn toward the
folks at home. But the summons to breakfast dissipated all such sad
reflections; and when an hour later they again came on deck the shore
was dim and hazy in the distance.