XIII RECOVERING THE TREASURE


“You’ll have to pay for that boat, Captain Shooks!” said the officer;
for the boys had seen some time before that the man in the stern of the
cedar motor-boat was dressed in some sort of blue uniform, and wore
a cap with gold braid, though this latter had been lost when he went
overboard at the time of the crash.

The skipper of the submersible laughed good-naturedly.

“Oh! my company will be only too glad to settle your bill, Mr. Anstey,”
he said. “I remember you now, and also that once on a time we were both
working for the Hecla people. I was sorry to have to smash into you
like that, but it was unavoidable. When two old filibusters like Badger
and me get to swapping blows, it’s going to be a case of ‘dog eat dog.’
You had it in for me, and I played you a trick worth two of yours,
that’s all.”

“But it’s a nice situation of affairs,” blustered the other, as though
trying to make the most of a bad situation, “when a peaceable man
can’t travel on the high seas, and minding his own business at that,
without having a reckless pirate run him down, and nearly drown his
crew.”

“Oh! tell that to the marines, Mr. Anstey,” laughed the skipper. “You
were minding some other people’s business all the time you hid there on
that Key, and watched what we were doing. And you meant to carry the
news to Badger, sure you did, only my young friends here happened to go
ashore, and saw you starting off. So since it would ruin some little
plans of ours if you ever got back to Badger, I made up my mind you’d
stay with me as my guests until we’d sucked the orange dry.”

“Then you have found something, have you?” asked the other quickly.

“Take it out in guessing,” he was drily advised by Captain Shooks, who
saw no reason for telling all he knew.

“And you’re going to keep us aboard your old tub, are you?” continued
the other, as he glanced at the homely looking undersea boat, which,
when compared with the jaunty steam yacht on which he served, might be
compared to a canal-boat.

“Tub or not,” said the skipper grimly, “it’s built for the sort of work
we’re doing right now. And what’s best of all, when we don’t want any
spies to take a look in on us we just give a kick, and go down fifty or
a hundred feet below, to stay there as snug as you please for hours and
hours.”

“Well, you’ve got us, all right, and I suppose we’ll have to make the
best of a bad bargain, Captain Shooks. But I give you fair warning that
I mean to escape the first chance I get.”

“Thank you for telling me,” laughed the other; “I’ll make sure that
your chance doesn’t arrive until we’re all through here. I reckon now
your craft is hiding over behind yon Key to the northeast of us?”

“You wouldn’t expect me to tell you that, Captain,” replied the other,
shutting his lips together resolutely.

“And it also seems,” continued Shooks, “that you suspected pretty
strong like that Coco Key was going to be our first stop; so Badger ran
down here ahead of us, sent three men ashore in that mosquito craft,
which could be hidden among the reeds and mangroves, and then made for
the shelter of that other Key to wait for news; is that right, Mr.
Anstey?”

“Nothing to say,” the other snapped.

“Well, I’ll give orders to have a place fixed for you down below,”
continued the captain, with a shrug of his broad shoulders. “There
you’ll have to stay, and eat your three meals a day, until we’re ready
to pull out of here, when mebbe I’ll put you ashore with some grub, and
maroon you there. But you’ll not be given a chance to spy on us or get
away, make up your minds to that.”

“Better than we could have looked for, under the circumstances,”
admitted the officer, doubtless knowing how much more severely his
commander would likely have acted under similar conditions, for Badger
was known as a cruel as well as daring adventurer.

They were now well on the way back to the island, around which their
course would take them, until once more the float made of empty oil
barrels and planks had been regained.

Since the spies had already watched them making this, and knew
everything excepting the very last discovery, there was no need to
hurry them below. Captain Shooks, however, was not the man to take
chances. He understood that Anstey was likely to attempt any sort of
sudden, desperate move if by so doing he thought he could cripple their
industry, and give his commander a better opportunity to win out.