“Of course you’re only joshing me when you say that, Oscar,”
remonstrated Ballyhoo reproachfully. “There will be plenty more queer
things to be seen in this under-the-sea hunt, and we started out to get
all there are.”

Soon afterwards they climbed to the upper deck, to find Captain Shooks
just coming over from the raft. One of the divers had been hauled to
the surface, and the men manning the air pump had quit work.

“Looks like we had about come to the end of our rope here, lads,”
remarked the skipper pleasantly, though he did look tired to death from
being on duty so long, not to mention the several times he had donned
a diver’s suit and gone below.

“Cleaned out, do you mean, Captain?” demanded Ballyhoo.

“Well, we haven’t found anything since three o’clock this morning, when
the last pair of bricks came up,” replied the other, yawning wearily,
“and I rather reckon all the balance of the stuff must be buried under
fathoms of sand outside the hulk.”

“That means no living being will ever see it again, doesn’t it?” asked
Jack.

“Well, if the day ever comes when they get an excavating machine that
can work a hundred or two feet under the surface of the sea,” replied
the skipper humorously, “I wouldn’t be surprised if they’d root out
heaps of gold that’s been buried for centuries. But till that time
comes it’s going to stay hidden.”

“Well, the chef told me to say breakfast was ready, Captain,” Oscar
reported.

“And I’ll be mighty glad to get some strong coffee, for I’m played
out,” the other admitted.

“But you mean to do some more looking about, don’t you, while we have
the apparatus rigged?” Ballyhoo wanted to know.

“I reckon we’ll make a few more tries, lad, before we pull up stakes
and clear out,” he was informed. “I’m hoping that something will fetch
that old filibuster over this way before we quit. I’d like to leave him
the bag to hold.”

All through the night one of the men had been stationed near the end
of the Key, seated in the small boat. His duty was to keep a vigilant
lookout for any sign of a moving light; for Captain Shooks had been a
little fearful lest the enemy steal on them unawares, and catch them
either napping or at work.

This man was recalled by a signal, and another sent off in his place.
Then breakfast occupied their attention, nor were any of the boys sorry
to find such a bountiful spread put before them.

After that work was resumed at the old stand. One of the divers,
who had had several hours’ sleep, was sent down, the other resting
meanwhile. Captain Shooks also announced his intention of giving it one
more try personally, not being quite satisfied that the “pocket” had
been wholly exhausted.

Ballyhoo was wondering whether it would be worth his while to try and
see what it was like, but his fear of sharks finally forced him to
decide against anything of the sort.

The early hours of the morning wore away. When the diver came up he
brought nothing with him, though he had explored diligently in several
fresh places.

“I reckon we’ve cleaned the old hulk out,” Captain Shooks had said on
hearing his report; “but since I’ve made up my mind to have one last
look, here goes.”

Accordingly, he went over the side of the float, and vanished from
their sight. The boys were “spelling” the tired men at the air pump.
It gave them something to do, and at the same time relieved the
sailors who had been keeping this sort of thing up for many hours.

“I hope now,” Ballyhoo remarked, as he labored manfully, “that nothing
happens in the way of an accident, just when we expect to pull out of
here shortly. That would be too tough for anything, and we’d miss the
skipper dreadfully, too, you know.”

“You old croaker, whatever puts such things in your head?” said Jack
scathingly. “He’ll be up again in half an hour or so, if there’s
nothing doing; and then we expect to get a move on. As for me I’m crazy
to start for that next stand, because there’ll be a chance for a new
kind of film business.”

When the captain did appear later on he told them, just as soon as
his helmet was removed, that there was no use of any further efforts.
The treasure lode had been worked to the bone, and no matter how they
continued to search, small chance remained for finding another one of
the precious Spanish ingots.