He found that somehow it was harder to hit this fellow, for as he came
on he dodged so violently from side to side that the shots seemed to
miss him entirely.

“Splash as hard as you can, son!” boomed the skipper through his
megaphone; for it is a well-known fact that often sharks may be kept
away by a tremendous commotion in the water, and more than a few lives
have been saved through that artifice.

Ballyhoo heard and obeyed. He kept up his strenuous efforts right
along, but managed to accompany them with such splashing as he found
possible, though doubtless himself quite at a loss to know why he had
been told to do this.

Then Oscar awoke to a terrible realization. His magazine had been
emptied, for no fresh cartridge slipped into the firing chamber when
he threw out the old brass shell, and worked the mechanism for a
succession!

He could not lift a hand toward helping his chum! How bitterly did he
repent being in such great haste, and taking too big chances. Had he
only restrained his eagerness until the shark came closer, he might
have easily sent a bullet home that would have finished the ugly
monster.

He dropped the gun with a crash on the deck. It seemed to Jack, still
working at his camera crank, that Oscar was almost tempted to madly
fling himself over into the sea, and try to save poor, exhausted
Ballyhoo, or else suffer the consequences.

But a hand seized the boy and held him fast.

“No, no, youngster, none of that foolishness,” cried the skipper. “Look
again, and you’ll see that it isn’t so hopeless after all. The Injun is
a-going to show us something. I’ve seen it done many a time out there
at Ceylon, and along the Australian pearl shore too.”

These encouraging words caused Oscar to notice that one of the natives
with whom he and Jack had just been bartering for fresh fruit was
urging his canoe along like mad. He aimed to pass the swimmer by, and
get between Ballyhoo and the oncoming sea monster.

“Keep cranking, Jack, keep it going, old fellow!” cried Oscar. “This
picture will be something worth while! There, see that brown-skinned
native go in, will you, just like a plummet? It’s good-bye to Mr.
Shark, I guess, Jack--but don’t stop a second, do you hear?”

Indeed, Jack was working steadily, and with a much lighter heart, for
something within seemed to tell him that Ballyhoo would after all be
spared. He had seen that Indian plunge gracefully into the sea, and
vanish from sight; and between his strong, white teeth Jack had also
noticed that he held a long-bladed knife.

He knew, or could easily guess at any rate, just to what use the dusky
young fellow meant to put that weapon. Coming up underneath the clumsy
man-eater, he would, with one mighty stroke, rip him open, and cause
his death.

It was a simple trick, once learned, and not half so dangerous as it
seemed; though a greenhorn might run the chance of making a bad job of
it, and inviting an attack from the monster.

Ballyhoo was not staying his efforts, even though fresh hope may have
taken possession of his heart, once he saw that canoe flit past him,
with the Indian standing erect in it, that knife between his teeth.

Oscar kept his eyes riveted upon that advancing fin. Suddenly he saw
that it had disappeared. A dreadful fear assailed him. Had the wily
shark taken warning of his peril, and swung around so as to give the
diver the slip? Then it might yet be that Ballyhoo would suffer from
his awful teeth, that could sever an arm or a leg as a hungry boy could
bite a wedge from a slice of bread and butter.

But the simitar-like fin did not flash into view again. Ballyhoo,
continuing his frantic efforts, was now close to the boat, and Oscar
hurriedly clambered down to where he could give the almost exhausted
chum a helping hand, so as to hasten his leaving the water.

He was just in the act of doing this when he heard Jack give a whoop.
The Indian had bobbed up again, and was swimming with easy strokes
around toward where his abandoned canoe floated.

Into this he climbed with considerable agility that aroused the
ardent admiration of the watchers; but then these Caribs are regular
water-ducks at all times, and can do the most wonderful “stunts” in
diving for coins tossed overboard by curious tourists, which they
usually recover before the silver bit has sunk ten feet below the
surface.

The other native had also pushed forward, and both were seen to be
leaning over the sides of their boats tugging at something.