“It seems to be covered with vegetation, all right,” Ballyhoo was
saying, as if that fact caused him to wonder. “You’d think that long
ago the storms that cross this stretch of the old Caribbean would have
just wiped out every trace of such a little spot of land.”

“Well, there must be some reason why they haven’t,” Oscar advanced.
“It may be a reef that lies to the northeast, and protects Coco Key
whenever one of those hurricanes swoop down here. I’ve got an idea,
though, that they gather force as they go, and are a whole lot worse
hundreds of miles further on, when they strike Cuba, or Jamaica, and
then sail over to Galveston.”

Although this was just a guess with Oscar, the probability is the boy
struck what might be the exact truth. Later on Captain Shooks told them
his experience was all along those lines; and that it took those West
Indian hurricanes some time to get going at their full force; so the
probability was they did not strike Coco Key as furiously as when days
afterwards they were reported going at a hundred and ten miles an hour.

All lights were “doused” so that not by a glimmer would their coming
be made known. And, sitting there, always watching ahead, it was not a
great while after coming on deck that the boys discovered what seemed
to be a far distant gleam.

“What do you suppose it can be?” queried Ballyhoo Jones.

“I’ve held the glasses steadily on it,” reported Jack, “and there’s no
doubt it’s a light of some kind, and not a star near the horizon, as I
thought at first.”

“Could it be a fire on some other island back of Coco Key?” continued
Ballyhoo.

“I’d say no to that, and for several reasons,” Oscar interrupted. “In
the first place you forget that the skipper told us Coco lay all alone
here in this desolate section of the Caribbean Sea. Then again a fire
always wobbles, now bright and again dim. That light is steady, if too
far away to be figured out.”

“You mean that it must be on some vessel, then, don’t you, Oscar?” Jack
asked.

“Nothing else,” he was told. “The boat must have been behind the Key
when daylight was with us, which would account for our not seeing the
same.”

“Whew! I bet you it’s that Artful Dodger, Captain Badger,” ventured
Ballyhoo.

“The skipper will be coming up on deck before long,” Oscar continued,
“and we’ll call his attention to the suspicious light. From what he
says I don’t believe any spongers or loggerhead turtle fishermen could
be away over here; though it might be possible. They cruise about
everywhere looking for some corner where they can pick up a cargo.
These West India ‘conchs,’ as they call them, are pretty daring chaps,
I’m told.”

But a short time later Ballyhoo announced that the strange light had
vanished, nor did they glimpse it again, though looking many times.

“Chances are the boat has slipped behind the island again,” Jack
ventured to say, “or else for some reason those aboard have decided
they don’t need any light, just as we’re doing.”

While the night was fairly dark, at the same time it was later on
possible for them to tell where the island lay. The mass seemed to make
a shadow on the water that resembled a dark spot.

“I could just manage to see through the glass,” Ballyhoo explained,
“that it had trees and scrub, and plenty of those queer mangroves
growing all along the edge of the shores. The skipper told us the
water was quite deep, too, and that we’d be likely to see all sorts of
tropical growth, once we went down.”

“Yes, although he hasn’t ever been here before in a submarine,” Oscar
went on to say, “he has often looked through a water glass, and hunted
for sponges that way, so he knows what these tropical waters can hold.”

“Huh! I was just thinking!” Ballyhoo exclaimed in a stage whisper,
“that it looks kind of spooky off yonder toward the Key, as we see it
now in this queer light. Oh! did you notice that, boys? Really and
truly something flashed up right ashore, then!”

“I saw it, too,” admitted Jack, and Oscar followed with:

“No question about it, the island isn’t as deserted as Captain Shooks
thought. It may be that first light came from a sponging vessel
anchored on the other side of the Key, and that some of her crew are
ashore, meaning to turn turtles when they crawl up on the beach; though
it’s generally in the Spring of the year they come out to lay their
eggs in the warm sand.”