Back and forth the pair swam, tearing at each other as though anxious
to take advantage of this unusual flood of light visiting their
undersea range. One was a little larger than the other, and, of course,
the boys immediately allowed their hopes to rest upon the smaller shark.

Indeed, it soon began to prove that this one was the more agile of
the two, and could get away with less punishment after some of their
terrific rushes. From this fact the spectators expected that in the end
the battle would result in the vanquishing of the larger spotted fish,
which appeared a trifle sluggish in its movements.

“You see,” said Ballyhoo, who noted all these points with the eye of
a professional, “it’s a heap sight better to be quick and spry than
big and powerful. That spotted shark could just lie on the other and
squeeze him to death, but he’ll never get the chance. Oh! my stars!
what a smash that was, and both of them took a hunk away! Why, they’ll
be all torn to pieces if they keep it up much longer.”

“It’s getting near an end right now,” asserted Oscar. “That spotted one
is showing signs of being almost all in. A few more such clashes and
his name will be Dennis, you mark what I’m telling you, boys.”

“I do believe Captain Shooks has stopped the boat just on purpose to
let us get a picture of the shark duel!” cried Jack, who was turning
his crank, and at the same time trying to watch what was going on
outside, a rather difficult task, all things considered.

“He knows what this must mean to us, that’s right,” asserted Ballyhoo.
“Here they come again at it, hammer and tongs. They make me think of
some things I once saw in the stock yards I visited with my father
when I was smaller, for this is butchery, if ever there could be such
a thing. I’m hoping deep down in my heart that both of them get wiped
out, for I haven’t any use at all for sharks! Ugh!”

That seemed to be the concluding round to the battle. The two sharks
stayed close to each other, and continued to snap viciously; but the
jaws of the big spotted one lacked something of their former vigor.
Indeed, it could be seen that this fish was at the end of his rope, for
he swung this way and that, as though unable to guide his course.

Even as the spectators continued to stare through their glass-covered
windows, arranged for this very purpose, and well protected against all
pressure to be met with down at the depth to which the boat could be
lowered, they saw the larger shark give a last flip with its tail, and
then roll over, belly up.

“That settles him, all right!” Ballyhoo was heard saying quite
revengefully, just as if he had taken a vow upon himself never to spare
a shark when he had a chance to annihilate such a creature.

“But the victor is almost as badly off, you notice,” Oscar called
out. “See how he wobbles as he starts to swim away. The chances are a
hundred to one he’ll be attacked by another of his kind before an hour
goes by; and if that happens it’s good night to the game little chap.”

“Well, it was a pretty fast scrap while it lasted,” Ballyhoo asserted,
“and if we’d staged it ourselves we couldn’t have done it any better.
The luck of the Camera Boys still holds good, seems like. Everything
comes our way, given time.”

“I only hope my pictures turn out first class,” Jack was heard saying.
“You see, I’ve never had any experience taking such through a heavy
glass like these observation windows or big bull’s-eyes are made of.
Still, everything looked perfectly natural to the eye, as far as I
could make out. How about that, boys?”

Oscar, wishing to satisfy the anxiety of the operator, hastened to
assure him that all was well.

“If that’s all you’ve got to bother you, Jack, just take it for granted
it will be the boss picture,” he went on to say. “Of course, a whole
lot depends on whether your focus was good, and if the rising and
falling motion of the boat didn’t interfere with first-class work.”

“I’m not afraid of that part,” the other asserted, which ended the talk
on that particular subject.

“Now the engines have started up again, you notice,” Ballyhoo announced
glibly. “The show being over, that act of it anyway, we mean to
commence going on again. What comes next, I wonder? Some terrible
monster of this under-the-sea land will perhaps try to knock a hole in
the side of our craft, thinking it’s a big whale come down to look the
ground over. Be ready for anything, Jack. We’re in this business for
thrillers, just remember.”

“And I imagine we’ll have all we want of the same before we’re through
with it,” Jack told him in return, as he once more took up his station
at his post, and made ready to turn on the “hand power” when the right
occasion arose.