It was pitch dark when he awoke some two hours later, and he awakened
so suddenly that he started up in bed listening intently.  Surely
somebody had spoken in the room!  But there was no sound, only the
crying of the night wind in the street outside.  And then there fell
on his ears a muffled murmur of voices in the kitchen, and a faint
noise like the falling of shoes upon the stone floor.  Stealing
across the room, he knelt before the door and listened with a sudden
dread in his heart.

For a moment he heard nothing at all, then to his horror he caught
the whisper of a voice he knew too well--the shrill, nasal accents of
Mr. Macaulay, the schoolmaster, in close conversation with his aunt.

So near were they both to the door that he could hear every word they
said.

"I tell you I saw him," said the schoolmaster.

"But what of that?  Every one knows that old Castleleathers is safe
as Mr. Hossack himself."

"Who cares two pins for Castleleathers--it is the other I want..."

"Ye mean the big man..."

"That I do.  If I can lay hands on him I'll fling a net over more
rebels than if we had Lovat himsel'."

"But Rob knows nothing of this.  He's only a laddie gone daft over
soldiers.  He'll have forgotten all about it in the morning."

"Not he--but if he can tell me where one whose name I'll no breathe
to you nor to any one else, can be found, I'll see his neck is safe."

"Then on wi' ye," whispered Miss Macpherson, "for I doubt we must
save Rob if we can.  Ye hae the rope."

"That have I," returned the master.

Then followed complete silence, and a second later the faint creaking
of the door behind which he crouched.  Rob sprang to his feet, and
paused irresolutely.  He was unarmed and helpless.

Very slowly the door began to open.  He knew it by the draught of air
upon his face.  In the pitch darkness he leaned close to the wall
waiting for them to pass him towards the bed.

But at that moment there sounded very faintly, like the sighing of
the wind--the far-off catch of a tune--a little twisted coil of
melody such as the fairies dance to.

"Hold!" whispered Macaulay, in a low tense voice.

"It is but a laddie's whistle," snapped Miss Macpherson, "haste ye."

But he appeared to have a dread of something in his mind.

"That is no boy's whistle," he replied sullenly, "but the pipe o'
Muckle John."

Then Rob could have shouted for joy, for he knew in a trice who the
great man in Fraser's tavern had been, who but the stranger on the
moor who had lured the weasel from his lair.  Nearer came the ripple
of music, and then sounded a lusty banging at the street door and a
man's voice shouting for entry.

"Whist!" said his aunt, and again came the knocking.

"Wha's there?" she cried.

"Open!" returned the voice--a deep bass voice like the noise of a
bull.  "Open in the name of the King!"

"Better open, Mistress Macpherson," counselled the master; "though I
would I were out of here.  If I had a sword, but who ever saw a
dominie with such a thing?" and he laughed ruefully, while a furious
knocking beat upon the door.  Presently Rob saw the yellow light of a
candle, and heard the falling back of the bolts.

A cold burst of night air rushed into the place, and with it there
entered a great, formidable looking man, so tall that he must needs
bend nearly double to enter, dressed in riding clothes, and with his
hat rammed down upon his face.

Rob slid into the room.  Beside him stood Mr. Macaulay, the rope
still dangling in his hands.  His aunt was facing the stranger,
holding the candle high so that its rays fell upon his face.

So they stood for a moment, and then the stranger closed the door
behind him, swung off his hat, and made a sweeping bow.