With the utmost caution Rob leaned forward and peeped over.

It was just as he had pictured it.  In the open fire-place a soldier
was huddled at his ease, his hat upon the ground, his back against
the slab of blackened stone, the pipe stuck at an angle in his mouth
and his lank hair dishevelled and on end.  He was dozing.  Even as
Rob watched him the pipe in his mouth slid upon his coat, where it
lay on its side with a thin curl of smoke twining from the bowl.

Rob considered the situation.  He was convinced that the man was
alone, but there was the likelihood that he had been dispatched there
to await the search-party.  The state of that district was hardly one
to encourage solitary English soldiers to sleep at their good
pleasure.  The ghastly pine-tree within a mile or two of this very
spot was a grim enough reminder of that.

Rob was strongly inclined to fall upon him while he slept, and trust
to knocking him senseless or dirking him as he struggled in the
narrow fire-place.  Those were not gentle times.  Dirking seemed a
very natural action to Rob.  He looked on the soldier below him as a
sworn foe beyond the claims of pity--an invader and murderer of his
people.  Under no possible circumstances could Rob have regarded an
Englishman with sympathy or admiration since for centuries he had
been looked upon as a natural enemy, and now a very bitter one indeed.

But if he failed to kill the man, then the game was up, and even if
he did succeed in his design they were not much better off, Muckle
John could not reach a place of safety, and another slaughtered
Englishman would only point to their near presence in the
neighbourhood and redouble the soldiers' previous energies.

And then as though to settle the matter once and for all, a bugle
sounded near at hand, the soldier awoke and scrambled to his feet,
there was a noise of marching on the moor outside and the splashing
of a horse passing through the burn.  Rob heard an order given and
the grounding of arms.  He listened to the roll-call being read and
the words of dismissal.

The short afternoon was closing in, and to his horror he realized
that they were camping for the night.

Into the open room below he heard several men enter, and their
conversation reached him in his hiding-place.  There was little
comfort in what they said.  As far as he could judge the officer in
charge was questioning the soldier who had fallen asleep under the
chimney.

"Seen no one I suppose?"  He spoke with a Highland accent.

"No, sir, and I've searched the place high and low."

"Been up the chimney?"

"Yes, sir."

"Looked under that gravestone there?"

"No, sir, it's not possible to move that."

"Call two of the men, we'll soon see to that."

There was a moment's silence and then a sound of heaving.

"Can't budge it, sir."

"Here let me have a hand."

A sudden fear came to Rob that perhaps Muckle John had taken refuge
there--but no, what four men could not move it was unlikely he could
lift with his injured ankle.

"Sergeant," said the officer, "march back to the cave where the
engagement took place yesterday with twelve men, leave the other four
with me, we'll spend the night here."

"Here, sir--with that stone?"

"It takes more than a dead Jacobite to frighten me," replied the
officer, and a few minutes later Rob heard the tramp of feet die away
again.

It was darkening fast and he wondered what Muckle John was doing and
where he was, whether if he was lying hid in the heather he would
make a sign, or whether he must spend the whole frightful night
cooped up like a fowl in a pen.

He must have dozed a little when a curious noise made him start and
listen with strained ears.  It was a familiar enough sound--just the
sharp crackling of firewood, but there was a horrible significance in
it now, for a whiff of smoke curling up into his face set his eyes
watering.