"Maybe I can," replied the other, "but try you first."

At that, getting rather red in the face, Rob uttered a thin squeal
such as a wounded rabbit gives, like the squeal of a rat for
shrillness.  Again and again he made it, but nothing moved in the
broken place under the bank.

"None so bad," said the stranger, and distending his lips he sent
forth such a screech that it froze Rob's blood.  In it was the terror
of the chase--the fear of what was following, and the drawing of
blood.

And before their eyes, not four feet away, at the very first note the
lithe form of a weasel leapt quivering upon the heather.

"It takes a deal of practice," said the stranger gentleman for fear
he might seem overproud.

But Rob was utterly crushed.

Back dived the weasel for his lair, and lying down, the stranger told
Rob of the ways of wild things until it was dusk.  Presently without
so much as a good-day but only a nod he buttoned his coat and
crossing the burn set off up the hill, and Rob saw him no more, at
least not for two full years and over, not indeed until the Jacobites
came to Inverness in the year '46.


It was about nine of the clock on the morning of February the 18th,
1746, that two horsemen rode into the town of Inverness.

Now there might seem nothing strange in that, but rather in the
manner of their coming, which was at a headlong gallop.  Rob Fraser,
hurrying to the Grammar School, had scarce time to leap aside as they
careered up Church Street, their beasts in a lather with sweat.  Rob
gave them one quick glance as they thundered by, noting that one had
lost his hat, and the other his stirrup-irons; that both horses were
fresh, grass fed beasts new from the fields, and then, on swift,
light feet he sped in pursuit.

The Grammar School saw little of Rob when promise of news was going.
For it must be told that in the year 1746 Inverness was in a rare
tumult, and none knew just how the future lay.

In August of the preceding year Prince Charles Edward Stuart had
landed in Scotland, had won the clans to his banner, had defeated the
Government forces at Prestonpans, and had marched into England.
Receiving no support in the south, he returned to the north with his
gallant little army.  Then came the second victory at Falkirk, and
the retreat towards Inverness with the Duke of Cumberland on their
trail.

It was at such a time that two horsemen galloping recklessly through
the streets of Inverness were bound to create a commotion.  None
could say what would befall within the next few weeks.  Inverness was
Jacobite by instinct; but there was no pleasant flavour about the
word "rebel."  In truth, the good people of the town were at their
wits' end to know which way to cry.

But not so Rob Fraser.  Despite the opinions of his father, despite
the sour words of Ephraim Macaulay, the schoolmaster, and the dour
face of the minister--Rob Fraser was a Jacobite beyond recall.

For a boy of sixteen he was slightly built, but lithe and wiry as a
hill-fox.  His hair was longer than is customary to-day, and covered
by a broad blue bonnet.  His features were regular and clean-cut, the
eyes dark and sombre, his cheeks and neck tanned by wind and wild
weather.  In his rough jacket and faded kilt, with his torn and
patched stockings and his soaking brogues, he made a queer enough
spectacle--not one would say the ideal picture of a hero of romance.
He wore no sporran, such luxuries were not for him, and his kilt was
but a roll of tartan belted about his middle, but he carried himself
with all the dignity of his race.  He was a schoolboy, but out of
school he was a Fraser, and were the Frasers not in the field with
the Master of Lovat?  Those were days when schoolboys had small time
for lessons.  Only the night before Lauchlain Macintosh had eluded
the sentinels and given warning of the plan to capture Prince Charlie
at Moy Hall.  There was no speaking to Lauchlain at the Grammar
School for months after.  Indeed, things were too critical for sums
and tags of grammar.  Already the Prince was threatening Inverness.
At any moment there might be a battle at the very gates of the town,
and who could say what might happen then?

Meanwhile the two horsemen had pulled up their steaming beasts in the
market place, and the one who had lost his hat raised himself in his
stirrups and shouted for silence.  Rob, worming his way through the
people, arrived in time to hear his opening words.

"We have ridden hot-foot," the man cried, speaking in Gaelic, "for
the Pretender's army is even now marching on your town."