II

THE COMING OF MUCKLE JOHN

The muffled tramp of feet went beating past along the road.  That
such an army should have caused such utter panic to the English
throne and sent London into a condition of wild terror, was amazing,
and must ever remain so.  Ill clad, poorly armed, ragged, gaunt,
undisciplined, it presented a spectacle more like an assemblage of
starved vagrants than conquering soldiery.

Many were quite old men, many were stunted, sickly creatures,
coughing terribly as they limped along.  Boys, many without shoes or
stockings, some not more than sixteen, made up a goodly part of that
desperate force.  Many of those who owned swords had them tied about
their waists with ropes of straw.  Perhaps a third of the entire
force were capably equipped with targe, claymore and dirk, while a
number had firelocks slung across their backs.

They may have been dusty, ragged, footsore, but to Rob they were
heroes of romance.  He looked beyond their haggard faces and their
bleeding feet and shabby clothes.  They were a veteran army as yet
unbeaten.  They carried themselves with the confidence of victory,
accepting the cheers of Inverness with the air of men receiving their
due.

Through a sort of mist Rob saw the tartans swinging, looked into
unknown bearded faces, caught the glint of sunlight upon the cold
whiteness of steel.  The crowd about him began to thin; the last of
the troops had passed.  Already the road was a swaying, excited
tumult of people.

Now at the back of Rob there stood a tavern owned by Major Fraser of
Castleleathers, a former friend of Lord Lovat, but fallen into
adversity.  He was a great rubicund man some sixty-six years of age,
and with no particular interest in either Jacobite or Whig.  Rob knew
him well.  Many a happy evening had he spent listening to his stories
of the great days of long ago.

Major Fraser thought things had come to a pretty pass when English
troops were hounding good folk about the country side.  Rob heard him
say so from the tavern door.  He was standing on the top step staring
with half-closed eyes after the disappearing Highlanders.  Above his
broad red forehead, his white hair was fluttering in the quirky
February wind.

"That you, Rob," he cried, "come your ways in lad," and he shivered
and stamped within, Rob at his heels.

Inside the taproom there was a solitary occupant.  He had evidently
never stirred for the tumult outside, for his legs were upon the
mantel-shelf, and his head was sunk upon his chest.  All Rob could
see was a very broad back and a great red neck.  He took him to be an
exceedingly powerful individual, and one more used to the saddle or
the hills than taverns.

"Have they passed?" growled the man at the fire, in a deep
contemptuous voice.

"They have," replied Castleleathers, shutting the door, "and Frasers
amongst them."

"Like enough, and the Master but a boy, James, fresh from college.
His father has muckle to answer for."

"I ken fine, but who knows how this will end?  I'd no break my heart
if old Sim had his neck thrawn...."

The man at the fire brought down his feet with a bang and swerved
about on his chair.  To Rob there was something strangely familiar
about him.

"Leave your bad debts to me," he said, "I have a bone to pick with
Lovat, and..." then seeing Rob, his eyes narrowed and he fell into a
sudden silence.

"Whist!" said Castleleathers, "it's only Rob."

But the other said nothing further, only frowning at them both, and
then of a sudden he uttered a low whistle, staring over their
shoulders.

Now the window was some four feet above the ground--one single
pane--and peering through it was Ephraim Macaulay, the school-master.
For a single instant Rob saw him, then with a bound the stranger was
at the door.  He stood gazing up and down the street for a moment,
then returned.

"James," he said, "I knew I was right, and when I see yon face I
scent trouble brewing just as surely as when the corbies come sailing
over the brae."