"There is a great man with him, Donald; who will he be?"

"I am not knowing for sure, Angus, but belike he has taken to the
heather like many another pretty fellow, though he looked like one ye
know of, whose name I will not be mentioning.  Whoever he is--he will
not be meddling with us, Angus."

"But where can the Captain have got to--he was watching Archie
Cameron and then he disappeared, and Cameron too."

With a backward look Muckle John stole on, and Rob and he passed into
the heart of the wood and up to the hollow place where Macaulay had
disappeared.  There Muckle John straightened himself, and pushing
aside the bracken at the lower end of the hollow he beckoned to Rob.

"There," he said, "is your prisoner," and sure enough there lay the
bound and silent form of Ephraim Macaulay.

"But how did he get here?" asked Rob.  "He could not have rolled."

"Rob," replied Muckle John, "I will be franker with you than you have
been with me.  I brought him here mysel'."

"You?"

"And who else?  But let that be.  I have a notion that we must
hurry," and he began to unloose the ropes about the prisoner's hands.

Rob watched him without a word, too perplexed to speak.

"Muckle John," he whispered at last, "could we no mak' use of his
clothes?"

"Tuts," he replied, "it's evident ye were much impressed with
Culloden day; but I would scorn to use an auld trick like that twice
in one week.  There are folk, Rob, would send the word round that
Muckle John was no what he was," and he turned again to Macaulay and
loosed his feet.  But the gag he left in his mouth, only removing the
bandage from his eyes.  "Now, sir," he went on, addressing Macaulay
in a low voice, "I have here a dirk which does its work secretly and
yet with dispatch.  Ye take my meaning?  I have also a loaded pistol
in my pocket, and I flatter myself you are acquainted with my
marksmanship.  Before we start upon our jaunt there are one or two
questions I would ask ye.  Just nod your head and I'll excuse a civil
answer.  I take it that we are surrounded here?"

A violent nod could just be discerned in the gloom.

"Thank ye.  In which quarter are your people gathered?  Point with
your hand."

After a momentary hesitation the prisoner pointed towards the west.

"Brawly done, sir, I knew I could trust you to lie.  So we will gang
to the left just to spite ye.  Now walk between us, and mind, my dirk
is itching for a dig into your ribs.  If we are challenged say it is
only twa o' your friends, and at the first word o' treachery I'll
stick you like a pig."  With this caution, he drew the gag out of
Macaulay's mouth.

"Hark ye, Rob," he went on in a low tone.  "There are a score of men
around this place, and they're after something with which you are no
unacquainted.  Should we win through there will be no rest for us
till we are well out of the Cameron country--but I doubt the length
and breadth of the Highlands will hardly be large enough."

All this he said in a very grave voice, and then taking Macaulay by
the arm, he led him towards the hill-front with Rob upon his other
side.

The dawn was near at hand and the driving mist fell cold as ice upon
their faces.  Down below them they could see the cold sheen of the
loch, and hear the wild fowl crying in the reeds.  After a full
quarter of a mile Muckle John halted.

"Now, Rob," said he, "we have reached their line of watchers.  As we
pass up the brae, we will be scanned by many an unseen eye.  Dinna
speak, but nod to me when I address ye, and tak' the upper side, for
you are nane the waur for a bit heightening," and with that they left
the shelter of the trees.  In the dim, grey light, the hillside
looked very wan and desolate.  A whaup was crying mournfully over a
lonely pool of hill water.  Like a shadow a dog-fox, homeward bound,
slipped over the path and was swallowed up amongst the crags.

No other sound reached their ears.

Suddenly from the heather at their very feet a man leapt up--a squat,
red-headed fellow with a naked dirk in his hand.  Something in
Macaulay's dim face seemed to have aroused his suspicions.