"Come, gentlemen," he cried, "let us to horse.  We must reach
Invergarry before dawn.  There is no sleep for us yet awhile..." and
he raised his harassed eyes to the cold sky.  "My lord," he said, a
moment later, taking Lovat by the hand, "do not give way to
despair--we are not beaten yet."

But the melancholy tone in which he sought to cheer the old man went
like a chill to their hearts, and brought the old satirical grin to
Lovat's mouth.

"Farewell," replied the old man with all the natural dignity that
neither age nor dishonour could rob him, "I doubt we shall never meet
again."

At that they all rose, and after shaking him by the hand passed down
the stairs.  He accompanied them to the door and stood with no
further word while they mounted their beasts.  The gillies letting
the reins, fell back into the night leaving him alone.  He took off
his hat, but made no other sign.

Of a sudden in the cold night there rang a wild tumult of horses'
hoofs and they were gone as they had come.

For long Lord Lovat stood in the doorway listening, with his eyes
upon the black way they had taken, and then shivering violently he
turned and stumbled upstairs.

Out in the darkness Muckle John crept from the shadows.  He had heard
all or nearly all.  He looked all around him and then stared at the
upper window of Gortuleg.  He could see the vast shadow of Lovat
seated by the table waiting his fate.  For a few minutes he stood
pondering the situation, then on tiptoe he crossed the track and
opened the door.  Closing it gently, he made his way up the narrow
stairs.  The door to the room where Lovat sat was open.  He halted in
the passage and looked in.

On a chair before the empty fire-grate sat the old man, his eyes
fixed upon the floor, his legs crossed his fingers intertwined.  His
lips were moving ceaselessly, and once he frowned like a man frowns
to himself who is uncertain just what course to take.

At last he rose and made his way across the room and to a strong box
heavily clasped.  This he unlocked and opened, extracting a heap of
documents and letters and laying them upon the table.  Then setting
fire to the peats, he began to turn over the stuff, throwing some
into the flames and putting some back again into the box.

"A braw night to you," said Muckle John, standing full in the
doorway.  The paper the old man held between his fingers fluttered
gently upon the floor.  Over his face there travelled a grey tinge as
though he had grown of a sudden very old or ill.  But he never moved
nor did he say anything.

Entering the room, Muckle John closed the door, and walking towards
the fire set about warming his hands in the coolest manner
imaginable.  Then taking off his great coat he laid it over the
window.

"On such a night," he said, "it is better to do things quickly, my
lord, and privately."

The old man answered nothing.  He seemed struck dumb with fear, or
rage, or some kindred emotion.

"I take it from your little preparations that you know how things
stand."

"I was looking through some old rubbish," said Lovat more at his ease.

"I know what sort of rubbish," replied Muckle John, extracting a
letter before the old man could check his hand, "how would this
sound, eh?  It's no what we might call cordial to Geordie."

"I am an old sick man," said Lovat, with a suspicion of whining,
"scarce able to read or write.  My memory is near gone and my
faculties all amiss.  What do you want with me?  It is late and I
have much to do."

"Perhaps your lordship will remember Castleleathers, who was once
your good friend."

"What of him?"

"He did me a service abroad.  Yesterday I was with him in Inverness.
He told me much about you, my lord--and your promises."

Lovat shrugged his shoulders.

"It is easy to listen to one side of a matter," he replied tartly.
"Castleleathers is a fool--I have never suffered fools gladly."