"If you have lied," said Muckle John at last, "I will hound you down."

Lovat gently drew the palms of his hands together.

"Why should I lie?" he said.

"Then good-bye, my lord, and look to your papers, for to-morrow will
bring dragoons and..."

"Enough," broke in Lovat, "I am not afraid."

He sat perfectly still until Muckle John had gone down the stairs,
then with a grim smile he set about sorting his papers.

"Knoidart," he chuckled, "it's little gold would remain in Knoidart."

Out in the night Muckle John stood deep in thought, then climbing
softly over the wall he reached Rob and the great grey horse.

"I must leave you for a while, Rob," he whispered, "but I'll return,
never fear, and keep watch for the bit tune--ye mind the way it
goes--" and he whistled a bar.  "Keep on the top of the hills,
laddie, but mind the skyline, and never stir by day.  It's advice
easily given but a weary business to follow," and putting his foot in
the stirrup he mounted and walked softly down the glen.

A great loneliness stole over Rob, left as he was in a country he
hardly knew, and with a throbbing wound, and a keen hunger on him.
Stealing round to the house he made his way to the hall, and hearing
no sound of human souls anywhere he entered the kitchen and happened
upon a plate of cold porridge.  This he devoured, and re-entering the
hall he lay down before the fire and fell asleep.

Upstairs Lovat crouched before the fire.  Hour after hour passed and
still he spelt out with his tired weak eyes the contents of one sheet
upon another.  Once he nodded and a letter passed unread--a letter
that was to weigh in the scales against him later.  For an hour he
slept altogether.  But as the dawn was creeping back over that
stricken country, the day following Culloden found him still bending
with a haggard countenance over his correspondence, every letter of
which might bring him to the scaffold.


At dawn on the same morning that saw the Prince speeding westward and
Muckle John upon the road, before the moon had sunk behind the hills,
Rob Fraser stole out of the hall and made his way into the open air.
Already rumours were drifting through the village that the English
were on the march towards Gortuleg, and all who were suspected of
having taken arms for the Prince would be summarily dealt with, and
their houses given to the flames.

Round the premises of Gortuleg dwelt the same melancholy silence as
on the night before.  Every living thing seemed to have fled.  The
very kennels were empty.  Only one shaggy Highland pony whinnied in
the desolate stable, hungry and alone.

A grey mist was driving down the glen, and a thin drizzle of rain had
set in with the coming day.

As Rob peered up at the windows wondering what had befallen, he
caught for an instant a pair of eyes fixed upon him, and heard a
noise of shuffling feet.  Coming from that deserted place it sounded
so dreary that he was near taking to his heels.  Before he could
move, however, the huge bulk of Lord Lovat loomed into the shadowy
doorway.  Leaning heavily upon his stick with hunched shoulders, and
a face unshaved and the grey colour of chalk, he stood with muttering
lips.  Then shuffling forward a step he stared blankly at Rob like a
man whose thoughts are far away on another errand.

"What o'clock is it?" he rasped at last; and pulling off his wig,
patted it idly, and rammed it again upon his head.

"Six o'clock, your lordship," said Rob, in a great awe of him.

"Six o'clock!" He frowned suddenly, looking all around him with
pursed lips.  "Where are my servants?" he cried.  And when no answer
came he quoted a scrap of Latin, and chuckled as though the context
tickled him.

"Well, well," said he at last, "and who are you, boy?"

"Rob Fraser, sir."

"Thank ye," he snarled, speaking in broad Scots; "but it's a name as
common as muir-fowl hereabouts.  Why are ye no with the Master, that
unscrupulous rebel, my son?  Mind how I spoke of him, Rob, should
they ever dare to take me."

"I heard ye, my lord."