He had dined as well as Highland rations would permit, and, like all
Germans, he loved his food.  He also relished the hour following his
dinner.  He had a kind of reverence for that sacred time.

To lounge before the fire on that dreary night of cold rain and mist,
a night fit only for Highland cattle and suchlike, had its
compensations.  The last few months had brought their burden of
anxiety and fatigue.  The eve of Culloden had been enough to try any
man's nerve.  Had he lost--had he been taken or killed--there is
little question that the English Crown would have changed hands.
Perhaps he had been over hard on the barbarous people who had
rebelled, but he was frightened.  Looking back on it now, he saw that
he had lost his head for a time.  And now the country was subdued.
He could return and listen to the things that London was waiting to
say.  There would be flags and banquets and honours.  England was at
his feet.  Labour accomplished successfully has, indeed, its
consolations.

He stirred the fire and listened to the crackle of the wood.  It was
a fine, brisk, homely noise on such a wretched night of driving rain
and sleet.  It was good to feel the rare glow of it on one's feet and
knees.  He wondered why it seemed so much better on a night of storm.
He hunted in his mind for a reason.  Suddenly he chuckled.  He
remembered the Young Pretender, sheltering for all he knew under a
ledge of dripping rock, or in a byre for cattle.  Bad weather cut two
ways.  It had its comforts for the victor--it lashed the fugitive
most piteously.

He laughed outright at the notion.  Where was he now, that silly
young man?  Yet not so young--his own age in solemn truth.  Then all
the more credit to himself.  Where was he now, but on some open moor
like a curlew in the night or a stag watching the way he had run.

His eyes shut and suddenly a snore rang through the firelit room.

At the same moment a tall and heavily plaided figure passed
noiselessly across the space that divided the door from the table and
stood there for a moment as though undecided in his mind what course
to take.  In the doorway there hung a heavy curtain.  Behind this
there was another form.  One could see that by the curve of it inside
the room.

On the table there lay a paper--a despatch apparently, and this the
man behind the chair looked at idly with his thoughts upon the silent
figure sunk in slumber.

But as he read he frowned, and then, very softly he gathered up the
paper and returned to the doorway where his companion appeared, and
together they passed out of sight.

In an adjoining room they paused, and together bent over the
dispatch.  It was dated two days since, from Loch Carron, and signed
by Captain Strange.  It stated that Neil Mackenzie had encountered
Muckle John and Rob Fraser in the inn of Loch Carron, and in an
attempt to capture them had suffered both in body and reputation, and
that unless he was permitted to take vengeance upon them he and his
following would cease to interest themselves in the business of the
Government further.  That Neil Mackenzie, himself, was even now
journeying to Fort Augustus to explain the matter, and that he
advised that it might reflect less on the Government if the affair
was left in Highland hands.  The remainder of the dispatch dealt with
the state of the district, the capture of Lord Lovat, and concluded
with the words: "There are reasons why it would be expedient if
neither Muckle John or Rob Fraser stood their trial, but were reduced
to silence by some other course, in fact if your Highness could see
your way to disarming their suspicions and the suspicions of the
Jacobites in some way, it would leave the road clear for Mackenzie."

"This Mackenzie," whispered Miss Macpherson, "is like to be the end
of Rob I'm thinking.  It is evident that he has suffered at the hands
of Muckle John...."

"And means mischief," added Castleleathers.

In the room down the passage the snores of the Duke rolled peacefully
on.

Miss Macpherson paused, turning the matter over in her practical mind.

"Have you ever seen this Neil Mackenzie?" she asked at last.

He shook his head.

"I never had dealings with Mackenzies," he replied.

"Then why not take his place, my man?  The Duke canna tell one tartan
from another.  Hear what he has to say.  Tell him your people are
mortally offended with Muckle John."

"But what of Mackenzie himself?"