Now the hardest part of the work began.  He first of all slipped a
piece of rope through the loop of the remaining bags holding the end
of it in his hand.  For a moment he rested, then leaping upon the
rock, he crouched an instant, and sprang straight for the thick
branch above him.  Grasping it tightly, he swung himself cross-legged
upon it, and leaning over began to haul the bags up beside him,
slinging the rope securely about the tree.

Having detached the first bag, he conveyed it along the branch, and,
smoothing aside the leaves, there was revealed a hole in the trunk of
the tree about the size of a saucer, into which he squeezed it.  This
he did many times, until the contents of the second half of the casks
were inside the hollow trunk, and then rearranging the leaves, he
took a bird's nest very gravely from inside his hat, and laying it
over the hole, slipped a couple of eggs from a little bag round his
neck inside it, and let himself down again upon the rock.

Then burying the casks as he had planned, and that but carelessly, so
that the top of one of them even stuck a little through the turf, he
threw a few gold pieces upon the ground.  The work was finished.
Stealing back, he gave a low call to Rob, who, waiting a moment,
slipped back to his side.

Cameron without a word slipped on the great-coat and his wig again,
and patting Rob upon the shoulder, led him down upon the beach, where
the bright moonlight made the loch gleam like beaten silver.  The
spade he had concealed in a secret place.

"Let us have a crack together for a moment," said he in a low voice.
"That we will be seen is probable, but I think none watched just now.
Ye might wonder why I," he continued, speaking more loudly, and with
his head turned a little towards the trees, "who have exercised such
care, have trusted you, Rob, who are a stranger to me.  Then I just
canna tell you, for I do not know, and that's the sober truth.
Anyway here is a plan o' the places and other things; and dinna let
this out of your hands, Rob, and if ye are taken, swallow it, or
destroy it in some way.  In case we are watched take it from my hand
as though we were saying good-bye.  Now!" and extending his right
hand, Cameron cried, "Good-bye, Rob," in a very clear voice.  and
made to pass the paper; but with a flustered movement he bungled it,
dropping it upon the ground.

"Tuts!" said he, and stooping quickly made a great business of
thrusting it into Rob's hands.  "Follow that spy to-night," he said,
"and then haste ye on the footsteps of the Prince, and tell him that
I wait his instructions in Lochaber.  Should ye need me send word
that 'there's a muir-fowl snared.'  Mind the words, laddie, for I'll
ken by that ye are taken."

At that moment there was a small noise like a sigh behind them, and
Cameron started and peered into the darkness.

"Speak lower," he said, "you understand?"

"I do," Rob replied.

"Then come.  Let us set the fellow loose, and after that the less we
see of Arkaig the better."  So saying he led the way to the hollow
place.

The moonlight shone smoothly down between the swaying tree-tops, but
it fell upon empty greensward and bristling heather.  No man lay
there.  Not even his ropes remained.  It was as though he had been
spirited away.  Without a word, Cameron drew Rob swiftly back.

"Separate and run," he whispered in an agitated voice, "for we must
be surrounded," and bending his body he darted amongst the trees
towards the open hill-side.  At that Rob overtaken by a sudden fear
of the unknown, and a great dread of Ephraim Macaulay, took to his
heels, and running in a direction at right angles to that in which
Cameron had gone, he doubled on his tracks, and dropped down under a
bank of heather.

Fortunate it was he had done so, for swift flying footsteps sounded
close above his head, and two men sped past him into the wood.  Then,
crawling on hands and feet, he made for the head of the loch.  But he
had travelled a bare five hundred yards before the clear soft note
like the sound of a chanter drifted towards him.  And the bar that it
played was the fantastic, ghostly tune of Muckle John, the same
twisted melody that had so shaken the school-master in Miss
Macpherson's house.

Nearer it came, and he lay flat upon the ground with a fallen tree
before him.  Suddenly on to the moonlit shore stepped a figure he
could not mistake--the huge shoulders and chest, the massive head of
Muckle John himself.  And as he played he peered this way and that,
as though he were in search of some one.

Rob was about to run forward, then as quickly he sank lower in the
shadow.  Something held him back.