XIX

THE DANCE OF THE MACKENZIES

During the mending time of Muckle John's ankle they lay hid in the
broken castle, and such a tale was told about the banshee that the
place was given a wide berth.  Each of the four soldiers related the
terrible experience to a dozen other soldiers and those added a
trifle of their own and handed it on so that within a day the whole
of Fort Augustus knew of it, and soon it was spreading to the
searching parties amongst the hills and within a week Edinburgh was
posting it down to London.

Many, indeed, scoffed at the thing but, as none came to give the
banshee a personal test--the desire of Muckle John for absolute quiet
was gratified.  The castle was treated with profound respect for
fully a century afterwards.

It fell to Rob to scour the neighbouring country at night for food,
and so a week passed peacefully enough, and one evening with a
promise of fine weather and a starlit night they prepared to set out
again.

"Let us make for Loch Carron, Rob," said Muckle John, "the country
thereabouts is clear of troops and when we hear news of a French ship
in the Sound of Sleat we can go south."

"Must we go to France, Muckle John?"

"That or Holland, Rob--but only for a while.  This will all blow
over, and when you have grown a beard, back you will come and none
will know ye."

"But won't you return too?"

"I?  That depends, Rob, I doubt but the country will be too quiet for
me.  The Highlands are no what they were.  I mind the day when a
gentleman could lift a few head of cattle at his good pleasure.  But
there'll be little of that soon, Rob, and I was not brought up to
trade like a lowland bailie."

Somewhat depressed by such a prospect, Muckle John sighed, and so
they set out again and reached Glen Affrick before the dawn.  There
they lay hid under the shelter of a crag until the evening, when they
set out as before and two days later halted on the shores of Loch
Carron, having encountered no dangers on the road.

At the head of the lock was a small, mean-looking inn, and outside,
sitting on their haunches, half a dozen rough-looking men--swarthy,
black-haired fellows in the Mackenzie tartan.  They were chattering
together like monkeys as Muckle John and Rob approached, but on
seeing them they fell silent and stared at them both with hostile,
insolent eyes.  There was not a man there who did not think of
Culloden the moment he saw them--Muckle John with his limp and Rob
with hunted Jacobite written all over him.  There was little welcome
for strangers in those days when a body of red-coats on the smallest
pretext might burn an unoffending village to the ground.

But they said nothing, glowering up at them under their shaggy brows.

Muckle John took them in at a glance.  He read just what was in their
minds, and with a quiet good-day he passed them and entered the inn.

"Rob," he whispered, "not a move till I tell ye."

A haggard old woman was sitting upon a stool before the peats.  She
raised her eyes and stared at them both for a time without
speech--then something in the build of Muckle John set her staring
afresh until he bent his head and looked into her lined, yellow face.

"Tha sibh an so," she cried huskily, "you here?"

"Whisht!" said Muckle John, "how is it with you, Sheen?"

She crooned at the name he used.

"It is well," she replied, "but what of you--and what is it I can do?"

"Tell me, Sheen," said he, "what of this place--is it safe?"

She shook her head.

"There is death here," she said, "Neil Mackenzie is back from the
wars--he is new come from the pursuit of the Prince--you must fly,
and the boy with you.  Did they see you outside?"

He nodded, with his eyes on the door.

"We are awaiting news from France," he said, "how can we leave
here--they would overtake us."