The innkeeper re-entered the room and, shutting the door, barred it
across with a heavy slab of wood.  For weal or woe they were there
till morning.

He motioned Murray forward saying nothing, and the men about the fire
made room for him, watching him all the time as dogs eye a stranger,
ready at a word to fling themselves upon his throat.

Murray hesitated before he sat down and cast one fleeting glance
about the room.  A sudden inclination came to Rob to shout a warning
and leap down to join him before it was too late.  But he knew that
they would complete their evil work before even he could take a part.

The innkeeper stirred the iron pot and drew out a hank of meat upon a
dirk.  This he handed to Murray, who took it in a dejected fashion
and began to eat, and very quietly, while Rob watched him in a stupor
of horror, he stepped behind him.  But he made no attack.  Instead he
shook his head at the others and jerked a thumb towards the room
where Rob lay watching them.  They evidently purposed to kill them
both at one and the same time.

Underneath him the horse coughed and rattled its bit.  Only an inch
or two of wood between him and safety--only a thin decayed layer of
wood.  A rat was gnawing in a far corner; he heard it squeak in the
darkness.  Down below they were sitting quite speechless about the
fire, waiting for the newcomer to seek his sleep.  Murray was white
and brooding, knowing no Gaelic, certain that danger was all about
him, nodding with weariness and ever pulling up for dread of what was
biding its time to strike.  In haste Rob examined the flooring of the
loft.  His fingers ran along the fringes of the boards.  No flaw, no
splintered grain, no crumbling of worm-eaten plank.  Still the rat
gnawed with steady persistence in the far corner.  Perhaps there was
a way there.  He groped about, and his hands encountered a sack
propped up against the wall.  It was very heavy but he moved it
gradually.  The rat scuttled away and dropped out of the room.  He
heard it fall upon the soft mud below, and into his face there rose
the warm smell of cows.

Breathlessly he examined the flooring behind the sack, and at the
corner where the thing had stood his hands groped in vacancy.  There
was a hole a foot in breadth.  Without delay he gripped the frayed
edge, where the rat had gnawed, in his strong muscular fingers and,
setting his feet against the wall opposite him, strained to his
fullest power.

With a sharp crack it broke away--a good two feet.  Underneath the
horse snorted with sudden fear; it seemed to be only a few inches
beneath his hand.  Lying full length, he stretched down into the
pitch darkness and touched its ear, soothing it with a whisper.

The way lay clear.

Then, regaining his feet, he stole back to the other end of the place
and looked down upon the men below.  It was a curious, somewhat
pathetic sight that met his eyes.  Murray was upon his feet and
bidding them good night.  He looked as though he knew in his heart
what deed they intended, and was on the point of appealing to their
chivalry (if they had any), and yet too proud to do so.  In the end
he only bowed and, taking a rushlight from the innkeeper, climbed
slowly up the stairway and lifted the trap-door.

Now it was evident to Rob that if Murray, unnerved by illness and
fatigue came upon him suddenly, he might hesitate or utter a cry, and
for this reason he hid himself behind the sack until he was in the
room and the trap-door shut, when he whispered, "Mr. Murray, Mr.
Murray," as gently as he could.

There was a sharp sound like a gasp, and Murray replied in the same
tone, "Who is it?"

With his finger on his lips, Rob appeared before him.

"Quick!" he whispered, "lift the sack with me and put it upon the
trap-door.  It will serve for a few minutes.  They are cut-throats
down there."

For an instant Murray fumbled with his sword and then, controlling
himself, he aided Rob, though his strength was not of much value at
such a time.

Fortunately for them, the four men below were hard at it together,
whispering in Gaelic, and evidently in high feather over the business
ahead, so that they did not hear the moving of the sack.  That
accomplished, Rob drew Murray to the far corner.

"Your horse is below," he said; "drop down and soothe him while I
wait in case they come.  Give me your sword.  Lead him out upon the
road and I'll join you there."

It was strange to take orders from a boy, but Murray had no option in
such circumstances.  He was no Highlander and had no foolish pride.
Without a word, he slipped into the blackness of the stall, and Rob
heard him patting his beast and turning it towards the door.