But in case of a surprise visit he left his chains on, and set upon
the rusty bars of the window, scraping and rasping until his fingers
began to peel and bleed, and his arms ached with weariness.  At
midnight one bar was filed through and laid inside the cell.  Weak
and dizzy with want of food and exercise, he was forced to rest for
half an hour, and then, crawling back, he attacked the cross-bar; and
two hours later he had cut it away, and the main part of the work was
done.  It took him only a few minutes to work himself loose of his
chains.

Then, uncoiling the rope, he tied one end to the fragment of iron bar
left in the window casement, and unwinding it softly he let it run
down the rough, grey wall.

All was very quiet and dark.  No sound reached him from below.  Far
away, on the outer guard, he caught the dull tramp of the sentry,
marching to and fro in the wintry darkness.

The time was ripe.  Slipping his pistol about his waist, Rob wormed
his way, legs first, through the open window, and coiling his feet
about the rope, he took a grip of it with his hands and began to
slide slowly downwards.

Down, down he went; past rooms where all was dark, skinning his knees
upon the sharp edges of stone, bumping and swaying, but nearing
ground at every yard, and with the breath of sweet night air upon his
cheek.

And so at last, without misadventure, he reached the inner courtyard,
and looked about for the cart of hay.

The dawn was not far distant now, and he crept about the place
feeling his way, seeing but dimly, and fearful that there was no cart
at all.

At last, however, some ten yards away, his hand touched a wheel.
With a gasp of relief he ran his fingers through soft wisps of hay
over his head.  Then climbing up, he wormed his way beneath a bundle
of horse-cloths, and waited for the morning.

The cart had apparently unloaded and was ready to leave the fort.
Fortunately for Rob the cloths were heavy, and the horses' nose-bags
and other articles made sufficient to entirely conceal his presence.
But how Muckle John could hope to avert suspicion falling on such an
obvious place of concealment, he could not imagine.

Very gradually the grey, flickering lights of another day glimmered
above the fort, and still there was no sound of alarm--no sign of
Muckle John.

Now the side of the fort where Rob's cell lay was not much frequented
until broad daylight, the sentry rarely coming so far along--an item
with which Muckle John was well acquainted.  Opposite this part the
hill sloped upwards towards broken country, commanding a clear view
from the walls.

It was not until seven o'clock, for the morning was dark and cold,
that a man passing through the inner courtyard to water the horses
saw the rope dangling down the wall, and with a frenzied shout
brought the sentry at a run towards him.

"Prisoner escaped!" yelled the fellow.

With an answering cry the sentry raced away.  A moment later a bugle
sounded the call to arms.  Clatter of muskets, hoarse voices,
commands, questions, running footsteps--all the characteristic
commotion of a sudden alarm--reached Rob in his hiding-place, and set
him wondering whether Muckle John had failed him, or whether he had
dreamed he heard the reed.

For his position was precarious.  He had escaped for the time; but he
was like a rat in a trap--able neither to go backwards nor forwards.

The voice of Strange interrupted his anxious thoughts.

"Guard the gates!" he ordered.  "Come with me, you men, and search
the cell."  Up the stairs they stamped and their footsteps died away.

Rob imagined them tearing up the stone steps to his cell.  He could
almost see Strange peering through the window with its filed bars.

Suddenly he heard him shout from far above him as though his head
were thrust out of the window:

"There he is!  There he is!"  It sent a shiver through his limbs.

But no one approached the cart.

Instead, the excitement grew even more intense, and the courtyard
about the cart became thronged with hurrying soldiers.  On the outer
walls he heard muskets firing, and cries of "There they go!" as
though they aimed at men upon the hill.  It was all very baffling and
mysterious.