Then, turning on the Mackenzies, he smiled like a man on a pleasant
errand, and standing with his back to the fire began to sing, and at
the first note a strange hush fell over the Mackenzies, for none had
ever listened to singing like that.

The sun had set an hour since and the grey mist of the gloaming was
creeping over the loch and along the beach.  Far out at sea a boat
was heading shorewards.  Muckle John saw it through the open
window-space.  It was a boat swiftly rowed and carrying a flag at the
stern.  Mackenzie was watching it too--a derisive smile upon his
lips.  And as Muckle John sang he saw the smile and measured the
distance that divided the boat from the land with a swift glance.

"Brawly sung," cried the Mackenzies, laughing in their sleeves at the
rude awakening the stranger would have.

Muckle John paused a moment and drew his whistle out of his pocket.

"If you were to give me the space of an elbow," said he, "I would
play you a tune."

"Way there," cried Mackenzie, and they fell back, leaving a passage
to the door.

At that Muckle John broke into a lament called "The Glen of Tears,"
and in the wail of it was the sadness of twilight and the story of it
was the passing of years.  Sorrow--sorrow and the old days that are
gone for always--backwards and forwards went Muckle John and tears
trickled down the cheeks of the Mackenzies, while Neil, their leader,
hung his head and said in his mind, "We will not fall on him yet, but
wait awhile until we have heard another tune."

And all the time the boat was nearing the shore.

Without pausing Muckle John swung out a reel, and so brisk was his
way with the fingering and so lively the measure that they fell to
dancing there and then, turning and hooching, and best of them Neil
Mackenzie, a scoundrel if ever there was one.

None noticed how Muckle John had reached the open doorway.  It was
only the pause that he made (which was pure reckless madness of him)
until they found themselves staring at each other shamefacedly and
looking at Neil to see what was in his mind.  But he only grinned,
thinking of the rare joke that was coming and nodded to Muckle John.

"Go on," he shouted.

Muckle John bowed his head.  On his lips was a dangerous smile.

"I will play a tune," said he, "called 'The Dance of the
Mackenzies'--it came running in my head an hour back."

"It is the quick mind he has," muttered a black Mackenzie to his
neighbour.

"I am not liking the look in his eyes," was the reply, "he is no fool
that big man."

But Muckle John was already fingering his whistle, and it was
certainly a taking tune and yet with something queer about
it--something that made them glance at each other under their eyes
for dread of they knew not what.

And Neil Mackenzie started from his lethargy too late.

For at the last bar there was the noise of crackling upon the
roof--and the thatch was in a blaze.

With a shout he drew his sword and rushed for the door, but the
stranger was ready for him and no man in the Highlands single-handed
could hold his own for a minute against the long claymore of Muckle
John.  He stood in the narrow doorway leaning a little forward, and
with a dirk in his left hand.

"Dance!" he shouted derisively as the noise of the fired thatch grew
to a sullen roar.  "Dance, you dogs!" and flicking the claymore from
Neil Mackenzie's hand he ran him through the sword arm.

Then they came at him altogether, a bristling, snarling crowd, armed
with dirks only and helpless against his long blade.  He drove them
back with harsh laughter--fought them back into the blinding smoke,
and standing in the doorway burst into song again, putting words to
the tune he had played.  In a stricken silence they listened, while
out in the darkness a boat on the loch halted and rested oars
watching the red flames curling up into the night.

"Dance--dance on the feet of fire!" sang Muckle John, "Mackenzies
tripping it brawly."

Suddenly from the room where the smoke was dense and black a voice
called on him to hear them.  It was Neil himself.