Cameron laid his hand on the boy's shoulder.

"Rob," said he very gravely, "Lord Lovat will require mair than you
to save his auld neck, and for mercy's sake dinna breathe a word of
this night's wark to him--nor to onybody but the one ye ken of."

"No," said Rob, "to nobody but the Prince."

"Come then, for time passes.  When the search for this treasure
commences--for mark you a score of eyes must have been watching me
just as closely as your own--what will they do when they dig on the
sand and find an empty huddle o' stanes?  They will examine the
neighbourhood for traces of spade work and footsteps.  They know a
single man like mysel' could not carry those casks mair than a
hundred yards.  They'd come straight here, Rob, like a pack of hounds
on the trail."

"What can we do?" asked Rob, fearing his work was thrown away.

"There is just one thing to do, Rob, and that maybe will sound mighty
ludicrous; but it is always the foolish tricks that are the hardest
to unravel.  When I asked you to show yoursel' upon the lochside,
where it is mair light than I had looked for, it was because I had a
thought, Rob, and it's just this: there are one or two gentry in this
neighbourhood uncommon anxious to watch my doings this night, and,
being a modest man, Rob, I'm no overpleased at the notion," and he
brought his head a little nearer.  "Supposing, Rob," he whispered,
"you were to take my place upon the lochside for a wee half an hour,
or maybe a little over?"

"Take your place?"

"Aye; put on my wig and coat (the hat I shall require), and when the
moon is hid by a cloud, just scrunch upon the pebbles, and sit ye
doon so that your kilt is hid.  It would tak' the eyes o' an owl to
see anything amiss in this dim light, Rob.  Will ye do it, lad?
Would ye?  It is for the Prince, bless him."

"Give me your wig and coat," said Rob for answer.

With a sigh of relief and no further word, Cameron set the wig upon
his head, and wrapped the long great-coat about him, turning up the
collar.  Then they remained in silence gazing at the cold grey sky.

"Quick," said he, at last, "there's a cloud coming," and he pushed
Rob gently from the gloom of the trees.  At the same time he sang a
line of a song for any who might doubt him, and fell back out of
sight.

When the moon swam out of the fleeting patch of cloud it fell upon
the figure of a man who was sitting on a low piece of rock, with his
elbows on his knees, and his back to the shore, and in the dead
stillness of the night who could guess how many watched that black,
crouching form, wondering why he never rose or walked about, but only
sat with his chin in his hand, staring out across the loch.

Meanwhile Cameron passed noiselessly back to the place where the
casks lay.  Forewarned is forearmed, and he was not foolish enough to
suppose that the hiding of treasure in the Cameron country would be
an easy matter.

His clan had much love for him, but they also had an uncommon respect
for gold, and times were hard.  So a week before the frigate had
flashed into Loch-na-nuagh he had dug a hole under a rock in the
stream which ran into Loch Arkaig, and inside the hole had hidden a
small barrel for holding half the contents of the casks (which
contained bags of louis d'or).  The other half, for safety, he had
resolved to conceal elsewhere, while the casks, empty of gold, he had
decided to bury in a hasty fashion just where Rob had placed them.

And in this manner the stiff work began, for only two hours of
darkness remained.

Happily the wind had risen, and the sound of his preparations were
unheard.  That Cameron was nervous and anxious to be done one could
have told by his frenzied haste.  First he walked upstream for fifty
yards with a bag upon his shoulders.  Then he slid a large boulder
across the waterfall to divert the current, and dropped his burden
under the bed of the stream, where the open barrel was ready to
receive them.  Then he returned, never putting foot upon dry land,
and so, with an aching back and bleeding fingers, he toiled on until
at last the barrel was full and the lid on, and the stone rolled back
so that the water rushed over the spot under which the treasure lay.

The digging of a hole for the casks down the stream then commenced,
and that ready, Cameron set off towards the mouth of the burn in the
opposite direction from where the first portion of the gold lay
buried; and still wading in the current, he began to approach the
shore.  About a score of yards from the loch a great rock rose by the
side of the burn, and some six feet above it a single branch of a
tree swayed stiffly in the night breeze, extending in a straight line
from the trunk, for near the shore the hill-side was woody and thick
with undergrowth.