"But cannot we run for it?"

"He is too tired for that, Rob, and in the open country we should be
shot down like hares.  Now, away with ye all, and take Grant here to
guide you.  Make for the south, and dinna stop putting leg to earth
for an hour.  After that I can promise no more."  Turning aside he
beckoned to his men, and placed them in position along the side of
the slope.

Rob rejoined the Prince and Dr. Cameron, and described the situation.
For long Charles was set upon aiding in the defence; but the
knowledge that such a course would probably seal the fate of his
friends, persuaded him on flight.  There was not a moment to spare.

[Illustration: THE HOLDING OF THE PASS.]

Accompanied by the man Grant, and bidding a hasty and melancholy
farewell to Muckle John, they hurried down the hill-side and
disappeared.

Rob let them go in silence.  The Prince was safe for the present, and
with him Cameron and the keys to the treasure.  For him, as for
Muckle John, there was nothing but danger, even if they won through
in the defence of the pass.

Presently the first shot rang re-echoing down the desolate glen, and
he crept forward to where Muckle John sat with a musket across his
knees.

"Rob!" he cried, in a voice half anger, half surprise.

"I could not go," he said simply.

For a moment Muckle John looked at him queerly.

"Man, Rob," he said at last, "you're a rare one.  But what of
Mistress Macpherson?  Promise me that you will take to your heels
when I tell ye, and go straight for Inverness.  She will shield you
till better times.  Promise, Rob."

"I promise," replied he.

Next moment the firing started in earnest.

Rob took in the situation at a glance.  It was very improbable that
the soldiers had come upon them by accident.  They most certainly
knew that the Prince was in hiding in the cleft of the hill.  To
surround the place was impossible.  The only way was to rush the
defence, and carry the pass by storm.  The reckless manner in which
they exposed themselves pointed to the prize they had in view.

As he looked down the glen, lying full length upon a smooth-faced
boulder, something in the appearance of a soldier standing a little
apart made him call to Muckle John and point him out.

At that very moment, however, the man took off his hat to wipe his
brow, and they recognized the cunning features of Captain Strange.

"The crows are gathering," said Muckle John in his sombre voice, and
taking careful aim he fired at him, and sent his hat flying from his
hand.

"A miss!" he cried, bitterly; and, as though the report of his gun
were the signal for the advance, the soldiers began to move rapidly
towards them.

What Strange was shouting to them Rob could not hear; but probably,
elated at the chance of capturing the Prince, and vying with one
another in scrambling up the precipitous place, they were surprised
to see a dozen of their number riddled with bullets before they had
come to within a hundred yards of the pass.

Then, taking cover, they began to move their way upwards, firing as
they came.  It was a case of a hundred against a dozen; but after an
hour the rocks were dotted with silent red-coats, and still the
little garrison held out.  Two Highlanders were killed and one
wounded.

The Prince had had his chance.  Unless some unforeseen misfortune had
overtaken him he was safe by now.

Calling his men softly, Muckle John dispatched two with the one who
was wounded, thus reducing his forces to seven, and, lighting a pipe,
he calmly awaited the next attack.

It came with a wild rush, and a shattering fire some ten minutes
later.  The English had planted a dozen marksmen up the hill sides to
command the pass, and under the protection of their fire the
remainder began to run towards the narrow defile.