XI

A NARROW ESCAPE

Now when Muckle John had heard the voice of Macaulay--or, to give him
his real name, Captain Strange--approaching the tent, he had moved
ever so slightly backward and loosened his dirk.  The inevitable had
happened, and he had played with fire too long.  And so, when the
officer hurried out to meet the new arrival, he did a number of
things very quickly.

But the first was the cutting of the canvas farthest from the
entrance.  Then with a dive he was through, and with the tent between
him and his enemies.

To the right of him, about a hundred yards distant, was a sentry,
standing with his back turned, looking towards the hill opposite.  On
his left again were a group of red-coats off duty and playing cards.

To cross the open space and reach the slope unseen would seem
impossible, and yet Muckle John did it, and what is more, took two
hours about it, which in a period of acute danger might seem
leisurely travelling.

What his quick eyes fell upon first was a horse grazing thirty yards
away.  But that he put out of his mind as too hazardous a risk.
About half that distance away, however, a tussock of hay was lying--a
loosely bound pile about eight feet long and four broad.

When Muckle John saw that he breathed again, and taking off his hat,
he hurled it in the direction of the hay, then waited patiently.
Fortunately, no one saw it skim into the air and drop upon the ground.

By this time Strange had roused the officer's indignation and then
his alarm.  He did exactly what any ordinary man would have done in
the circumstances.  He dashed into the tent--he saw the tear and
peered quickly through it.  But Muckle John was round the flap and
unseen.  Then, realizing that his late guest had bolted, he darted
through the door of the tent again, and bawled the order to arms.

At that Muckle John moved like lightning.  He did not dash for the
tussock of hay; he knew that such an obvious place of refuge would
attract them first.  He quite softly re-entered the tent through the
slit, and, crawling under the bedding on the floor, he watched the
scurrying soldiers outside with keen and calculating eyes.

Half a dozen, headed by Campbell, charged the hay and turned it over
and over.  Then Strange, not satisfied with that, drove his sword
into the midst of it, and poked and jabbed with extraordinary
determination, at which Muckle John smiled and lay still.  He had not
to wait long, however, for the inevitable discovery of his hat sent
them post-haste towards the heather and the rough country beyond, and
saved a closer search nearer home, which was just what Muckle John
had feared and planned to prevent.

Away went the soldiers with Strange and the little red-faced officer,
and the camp, saving the sentries, was clear.

So the first onward move commenced.  With a spring, Muckle John was
through the slit, and darting over the intervening space, he reached
the mangled tussock of hay and crawled beneath it.  A rope bound it
loosely together.  Slipping between this and the hay, and trusting to
luck that his boots were hid, he began to move in inches over the
ground.

By the time the first soldiers passed wearily and footsore into camp,
too hot and tired for further searching, he had covered twenty yards.

After them came Strange and the officer, deep in talk.  They tramped
past and all was quiet again.  And then, to his profound dismay, two
soldiers, late-comers from the pursuit, sank down upon the hay, and
prepared to rest themselves.

"Uncommon 'ard this 'ay," said one of them.

"That it be, Silas--but likewise uncommon soft after 'eather," and
one of them yawned and loosened his jacket.

"What wilt do with the youngster, think ye?" asked one.

"Shoot 'im at Fort Augustus," replied the other.  "Heard Captain say
as 'ow we march there to-morrow.  Seems cruel t'shoot a mere shaver,
Silas."

"It's not as if 'e was a Christian, belike, but only an 'Ighlander,"
replied Silas.

"That be so," answered the other, apparently reassured.

To Muckle John the information was of interest.  But for the moment
he was more anxious about the future.