XXII

MISS MACPHERSON AND THE DUKE

On the brow of the high ground close to Fort Augustus there sat a
solitary man wrapped to his nose in a great Highland plaid.  Night
was falling and a thin drizzle of rain coming out of the west.  The
black outline of hills closed about the Fort as though to overwhelm
it.  No sound there was but the weary dripping of rain and the noise
of running water over stones.

The figure on the mist-ridden hill-side never moved, but remained as
lifeless as the crag behind him--part as it were of the tragic
twilight.

Down in the Fort lights flickered here and there, and a horseman
plunged out of the obscure light and entered the gates.

The man upon the hill never raised his head but watched him for all
that, the rain pouring from his bonnet to his plaid and running in
little streams upon the heather.

A bugle sounded down below.  Following hard on its muffled notes came
the clanging of the gates.

The Fort was closed for the night.

The swift darkness of a Highland night smoothed out the ragged line
of mountain, obliterating with its travelling shadows the outlines of
the desolate glen, the clumps of trees about the low-lying country
and in a flash the man upon the hill.  He had become in a breath of
time inseparably of the night itself.

Long after a clear whistle sounded from the pathway below.  It was
followed by a softer longer whistle.

With a sigh the man upon the hill gained his feet, being very stiff
and cold with waiting, and passing over the sodden heather stood
looking about him into the mist.  Presently two figures loomed into
sight.

The first of them, wrapped like the man himself in the folds of a
heavy plaid, addressed him in a familiar voice.

It was Miss Macpherson.

"Come, Castleleathers," she said, "here is the man Macpherson, he is
letting a rope over the wall, and he has arranged all.  The Duke
expects a visitor from the west this very night or maybe to-morrow
and he will be alone.  Things are no so strict as they were, and
there is a rumour that he goes south soon.  He thinks the Highlands
are crushed...."

"The German loon," snapped Castleleathers with much contempt, "he
cannot tell the difference between a Hessian and a Macdonald."

"Come," said Miss Macpherson, "and say ye do not think hardly of me
if anything goes wrong."

He took her hand and gave it a crunch.

"Tuts!" he said.  "I'm no easy to move, but I like a ploy at a time.
I feel younger to-night than I've felt this ten years.  He's only a
wee bit German after all."

Without another word they reached the Fort, and Macpherson, who
seemed a capable man though silent as a dyke, passed through the
gateway and disappeared.

They skirted the outer rampart noiselessly and taking up their stand
some hundred yards beyond the entrance gates, awaited the rope.

A few minutes later and down it came, and steadying Miss Macpherson
for fear she grew giddy and fell, they began to mount together, and
reached the top.  There all was very dark and quiet, and the mist
obscured everything outside the reach of a man's arm.

The garrison had long since grown careless now that the Highland
forces had been utterly dispersed and crushed.  Even the Duke was
growing lukewarm in persecution and anxious to bid farewell to the
land of snow and mist and hear what London had to say to him for his
brave doings.  At that very moment he sat toasting his toes before a
grand peat fire with a log or two to give it flame, a glass of mulled
wine at his elbow.

The room in which he sat was very small and compact, the shutters
drawn, and the seat in which he dozed one he had procured from the
wreckage of a chief's house--a massive cushioned chair--with a back
so high that it took a big man to see who entered the room.