I regarded the naiad with renewed wonder, surprised to find it so
beautiful and realizing at last the exalted sense of this mysterious
loveliness which I no longer thought of comparing unfavorably with that
of Madame d’Ionis. I felt that all comparisons are puerile between
inanimate objects and beings that bear no resemblance to each other.
This inspiration of Jean Goujon’s had a beauty peculiar to itself—the
face wore an expression of sublime sweetness—and seemed to communicate a
feeling of repose and happiness to the mind, like the sensation of
freshness imparted by the continuous murmur of the limpid waters of the
fountain. At last Madame d’Ionis made her appearance.

“Here is some news,” said she, seating herself familiarly near me; “look
at this strange letter that I have just received from M. d’Ionis.”

And she showed it to me with an _abandon_ that affected me strongly. I
was disgusted with a husband whose letters to such a wife could be shown
without embarrassment to the first comer.

The letter was cold, long and diffuse, the characters slender and
tremulous, the orthography very doubtful. Here is the substance of it:

“You ought not to have any scruples about gaining your end. I have none
whatever in employing the most rigid legal means. I refuse all other
arrangements than those I have already proposed to the d’Aillanes, and I
wish to see a termination to this law suit. You may, when it is once
gained, extend a helping hand to them, I shall not oppose your
generosity, but I wish for no compromise. Their lawyer has offended me
in his address in the first place, and the appeal that they have lodged
is presumptuous beyond belief. I find M. Nivières very sluggish, and I
have expressed my displeasure through the mail to-day. Act, yourself,
stimulate his zeal, unless some higher order should issue from ——. You
know what I mean, and I am surprised that you say nothing to me about
what may have been observed in the room—since my departure. Has no one
had the courage to pass the night there and to write down what he may
have heard? Must we depend alone on the assertions of the abbé de
Lamyre, a man who does not speak seriously? Let some one _worthy of
belief_ attempt this proof, unless you have sufficient courage to do so
yourself, which would not surprise me.”

As she read this last sentence, Madame d’Ionis burst out laughing.

“M. d’Ionis amuses me,” she said. “He flatters me so that he may induce
me to attempt a thing that he would never think of doing himself, and he
is indignant at the cowardice of people for whose benefit nothing would
induce him to give such an example.”

“What I find most remarkable in this,” said I, “is M. d’Ionis’ faith in
these apparitions, and his respect for the decisions he believes them
capable of rendering.”

“You see now,” said she, “that this is the only means of subduing his
rigor towards the poor d’Aillanes; I told you so, and I repeat it, and
you will not lend yourself to it, when the opportunity is so fine. Since
he is so anxious to receive the green ladies’ revelations perhaps he
will not go so far as to ask you for your word of honor.”

“It seems to me, on the contrary, that I must seriously assume the role
of imposter, since M. d’Ionis demands the assertion of a person ‘_worthy
of belief_.’”

“And then you fear the ridicule, the blame, the jests that you would not
fail to meet with; but I could answer for M. d’Ionis’ absolute silence
so far as that is concerned.”

“No, madame, no! I would fear neither ridicule nor blame, as long as it
was a question of obedience to your wishes. But you would despise me if
I merited this blame by a false oath. Besides, why not try to induce the
d’Aillanes to consent to a compromise conveying honorable conditions to
themselves?”

“You know perfectly well that those M. d’Ionis proposes are not
honorable.”

“You have then no hope of modifying his intentions?”

She shook her head and was silent. This gesture was an eloquent
explanation of the kind of man her husband was, a creature without heart
or principle, indifferent to such an array of charms, and given over to
excesses.

“Still,” replied I, “he authorizes you to be generous after victory.”

“And what does he take them for?” cried she, crimsoning with anger. “He
forgets that the d’Aillanes are the soul of honor, and will never
receive as a favor or benefit, what justice causes them to regard as the
legal property of their family.”

I was struck with the energy she infused into this reply.

“Are you then so intimate with the d’Aillanes?” I asked. “I was not
aware of it.”