“No,” Hi said, “I’m afraid I don’t.”

“What do you think of it?”

“It’s very grand.” Indeed it was very grand, being in two orders of
colossal architecture, carven to the cornice with grotesques of gods. It
seemed to Hi to be five cricket pitches long. It was built with a tough
stone facing over brick. Wherever trees had broken the facing, the brick
core was laid bare: they were small bricks laid in a mortar like melted
flint spread very thin. The bricks were rose-red and seemingly as tough
as stone. All the roof of this temple was covered with trees, shrubs,
plants and flowers, beautiful exceedingly. It occurred to Hi that this
was the sort of place for which Dudley Wigmore may have come
prospecting.

“I’ve had the men at work at this one for some time now,” the man said.
“I’m getting it a bit clear now. Where do you suppose the treasure would
be?”

“I suppose the Spaniards got all the treasure at the conquest.”

“Not from this one: they never came near this one.”

“I’ll bet they did,” Hi said.

“Well, I know they didn’t,” the man said. “This place was lost in the
jungle centuries before the Spaniards came. I can prove it: look here.”

He led Hi to the temple door, in front of which a great heart tree had
once grown. This tree had been sawn through and removed: the near-by
ground was all burnt and scattered with its wreck.

“There’s the proof,” the man said, “that tree was blocking the main door
long before the Spaniards landed. Count the rings in the stump.”

“That’s true,” Hi said, glancing at the countless rings. “But don’t
these tropical trees put on more than one ring in a year?”

“No, they don’t,” the man said. “Whereabouts inside do you suppose the
treasure is?”

“I suppose under the altar, wherever that would be. But the people would
have taken it with them when they went from here.”

“They didn’t go from here.”

Hi waited: he knew that the man wanted his help in some way in this
treasure-hunt. He would not ask any question which might bring in or
suggest Wigmore. He was certain that Wigmore had discovered this place
and had been murdered because of it. Any knowledge which the man had was
Wigmore’s.

“It will be hard work,” Hi said, “to get inside this place.”

“Nothing like the work of getting to it. The roof hasn’t fallen.”

“I’ll be surprised if it hasn’t,” Hi said, “with the weight of the trees
growing on it.”

“The roof can’t fall,” the man said. “These builders couldn’t vault a
roof. That is why this place is so narrow. The roof is of slabs of stone
laid upon balks of stone. It’s as strong as a hill. It is all enormous
walls, with narrow rooms inside them. There’s a certain amount of mess
inside, of course: these tropics sprout like sewage, but it can be
easily cleared: that is, fairly easily.”

“It would be interesting work,” Hi said, “to get inside and see what
it’s like.”

“Interesting? I believe you,” the man said. “This place was built by the
Quetzals, whoever they may have been. They had a picture writing of
sorts and kept a history in it. They’ve got rolls of their history in
Santa Barb’; people have been deciphering it. Nothing much is known of
them yet, for they were gone before the Spaniards came. Now I’ve reason
to believe that this place is the great temple of the Quetzals; the
Temple of the sun, or the Temple of Gold. It was a legend when the
Spaniards came, as I expect you know: they heard of it: they often
looked for it, but they never found it; the forest fever saw to that.
Except by a sort of miracle no one could have found it. The Quetzals
were a great race: you’ll see their cities up in Melchior; but the fever
came in and wiped them out. I believe that this old god-shop is bung
full of gold.”

“What gold?” Hi asked.

“Gold of offerings.”

“That would be exciting.”

“The Sacramento would be a fool to it.”