“No, his nephew.”

“Did either Mr. Winter or Mr. Weycock tell you of troubles impending in
this country.”

“They seemed to think that things were not perfectly settled,” Hi said.

“And what do you yourself think, now that you have seen them?”

“They don’t seem quite happy somehow,” Hi said.

“How can they be happy,” she said, “with Antichrist upon the throne? I
am a woman and meddle little with politics, but very much with religion,
which is a force that your Mr. Weycocks do not admit to exist. He and
his friends, Highworth, are rousing up in this country something which
they cannot understand, the very depths of the soul of this people. But
come, Highworth, take this flower. Give me your arm. Open that door for
me. This is the chapel of the Piranhas; this tomb is where my husband
lies. He loved your father, who was more than a friend to us in a time
of calamity. Lay the flower upon his tomb. He will be glad to know that
your father’s son is in this house in this time of calamity.”

“Surely Señora,” he said, “the calamity is not so great.”

She looked at him and could not answer.

“Leave me here a little, Highworth,” she said. “There is a Greco over
the altar. But you will not care for these things. You will find Rosa in
the garden room.”

It was dim in the chapel. It was built of white Otorin marble in barrel
vaulting, with one piercing in the sanctuary. Hi saw a blackness with
bronze gleams where he laid his flower. He knew that Donna Emilia was
crying.

“O Señora,” he said. He felt that he could not stay there: he went
quickly back to the light.

Pablo led the way to a room full of sunlight: it opened upon the garden,
but was itself more full of flowers than the garden, from a bank of
white cuencas near the French windows. The light poured upon these, so
that every white trumpet of the cuencas seemed to quiver with life.
Little yellow butterflies poised above the flowers. A crested humming
bird with a dazzling throat hovered in the light near the door.

“Well, Hi,” Rosa said, “how are you liking Santa Barbara?”

“Oh, I love it.”

“You came in the _Recalde_, of course. When did you write to mother; do
you remember?”

“Yes, the day before yesterday; a few hours after I landed.”

“I thought so,” she said. “I suppose you wondered why we didn’t answer.”

“I thought you were out of town.”

“We did not receive your letter till this morning,” she said. “The
censorship is on again.”

“What censorship?”

“The Government’s. You see, we are a White family. All our people are
Whites, or Surplices even, the sort of purest of the pure. The Reds have
been planning something unusual for some time. They have been talking
about a conspiracy to kill Don Lopez and evidence of a White rebellion.
They always talk like that before a devilry. Then they say that they
were provoked to measures of safeguard.

“Latterly there has been no censorship of letters; but I was afraid that
one had begun two or three days ago. Now I am sure of it.”

“What do they do?”

“Take all the letters addressed to eminent Whites to some Red officer in
the fortress; then he steams them, I suppose, and reads them and has
them photographed or copied before they are delivered.”

“I wonder they take the pains,” Hi said. “If they’re dirty enough skunks
to read other people’s letters, they’re dirty enough skunks to forge
false ones.”

“Oh, they are; but they like to know what is going on, as well as what
they imagine. Don’t speak of these things to mother, or before her, Hi,
if you don’t mind. I’m afraid I rather shut you up when you asked about
the celebrations. But mother hasn’t been well for some time. She thinks
that something terrible is happening; or soon going to happen. Any
allusion to the Reds just now upsets her.”