“What I must do,” he thought, “is to wait, if he’ll let me, till I can
see some real chance of escaping, and then take my chance: the first
that comes: any way of getting away: there’s none at present.

“But why does he lead me all this way? We must be three miles from the
village. If he had only wanted to get rid of me, he could have potted me
long ago and put me on an ant’s nest. Perhaps, after all, he is setting
me on my way to Anselmo or to the road. By Jove, if he is running
straight, I’ll apologise to him. But I’ll bet he isn’t. He’s got
something in his mind and the time for our settlement hasn’t come yet.”

They went on in Indian file through the cane-brake, neither speaking,
with strange thoughts and threats passing from one to the other, till
the cane-brake gave way to a jungle, which arched over the path,
shutting out the sky. They walked in a tunnel of greenness, pierced with
slats of glare, down which flakes of living glitter and colour floated
and soared, or sometimes paused as butterflies. Hi looked for some place
to his right side into which he could dart for safety: no place shewed
there. The man led on without uttering a word.

After half a mile of the tunnel of the jungle, Hi saw in front of him
the glare of a clearing, and at the same moment felt or heard a call
within his mind, to look to his right side. Afterwards he decided that
he heard the call as sound and at the same time felt it within him as
warning. He looked, as the call bade, to his right side, with the sense
that that part of the wood was evil. It looked more than usually black
and joyless, being a thick cover of trees made like stage Druids with
lichens. Yet at the point where he looked there was a space of
mournfulness, in the midst of which, upon a mound from which a foot
protruded, he saw the figure of Dudley Wigmore, as he had appeared at
the hut the night before. The face was sad as it had been the night
before: it had a look of hopeless brooding.

Hi was quite certain that he had seen it: he looked for one second: it
was certainly there: he looked again: it certainly was not there; though
the foot was there, a white man’s foot, in a boot. He looked to his
front instantly, just in time to catch the look of Letcombe-Bassett, who
glanced back at that moment to see what he was looking at.

“We’re nearly there now,” he said.

Hi felt that they were, but answered: “Surely not at the road?”

“No,” the man said, “not at the road, but what we’re coming to.”

“How far have we come?” Hi asked. “Four miles?”

“Call it two and a bit.”

“It seems more, in this forest,” Hi said.

“I’m used to this forest,” the man said. “Do you find it gloomy at all?”

“No,” Hi said. “Not when I can see the sunlight.”

“The last bit is a bit gloomy,” the man said. “It would be a good place
for putting anyone away, if anyone were inclined that way.”

“I suppose it would,” Hi said, becoming very watchful. “I didn’t
consider it in that light. I suppose you always run some risk from
Indians in a forest like this? Or are you too much feared by the
Indians?”

“You never know where you stand with Indians,” the man answered. “But
this is the sort of place they would choose, if they wanted me to pass
over Jordan. And no one would be any the wiser. One would be bones in a
week and green plantation in two: undiscoverable; just like part of the
world.”

He led the way into a space which had been cleared not very long before
by many men working together. Hi knew that Dudley Wigmore had been
murdered by this man at the spot over which they had just passed. That
was Wigmore’s foot sticking from the grave; that was Wigmore’s wraith
dreeing his weird there. How soon was he to be added to Wigmore’s grave
by those hands now playing upon the rifle?

“There now, what do you think of that?” the man asked, nodding ahead.

That was a stone temple carven with gods by some race long since
forgotten. It had been covered by jungle until a few months before: now
by many burnings, hackings and tearings its face had been cleared and
its doorway laid open.

“What do you think of that?” the man repeated.

“I suppose it is one of these Indian temples,” Hi said.

“Yes,” the man said, “one that hasn’t been touched. Do you know anything
about these places?”