“I am sorry,” Hi said, moving as far as he could, “I did not see.”

“Any man of decent feeling would stand up,” the man said. “But perhaps
you don’t come from the fobug St. German.”

“Where is that?”

“Oh, perhaps you don’t understand Latin; it’s where manners is.”

“Well, I wish we were there,” Hi said.

“That touched you where you live,” the American said. “This kid ain’t to
blame for coming here. Though I’ll roast this gol-derned Government for
putting him.”

“Ay, ay, ay, de mi,” the young woman called, as she rose to a sitting
posture and clawed with both hands in the faces beside her.

“Come off with all that, Angelita,” the American said. “You, mister,
catch a holt of that hand and I’ll catch a holt of this; then she won’t
do us an injury.” Hi caught one of the arms of the young woman as he was
bid, but she was strong in the arm and writhing all ways at once. “Gee,”
the American said, “this young woman will ask her husband how about it
when he comes home from his Lodge; she won’t wait till day dawns.”

As Hi hove down the arm of the young woman, the imbecile began to coo at
him, with symptoms of affection. Presently the Englishman, who was a
tall, thin, hatchet-faced man, with little moustaches waxed at the ends,
said: “That captain-man ought to be shot for sending a lady in such a
state in a waggon like this. I have been here five years and this is my
reward. My wife now is going to be sick. It is the fresh air beating
upon her, in her present state.”

The old woman, who was drunk, here shoved her grandson to the tail-board
of the waggon; the fresh air seemed to have beaten upon him.

“This is a nice way to send a lady to the city,” the Englishman said.
“That boy ought to be ashamed of himself. As for that captain-man, I
shall complain to the Government. It is a marvel that she doesn’t
miscarry.”

“She’ll run a darned good chance of that,” the American said. “The
Whites will be here this afternoon. There’ll be fighting in the streets
to-night. So if you know a good snug cellar in a back street, get to it,
pronto.”

Here the three children of the Englishman began to cry; their mother,
who was a big woman with a white fat face and jowl, boxed their ears for
crying. The drunken woman, having soothed her grandson a little, drank
from a bottle; then, rising from the floor to her feet, tried to dance,
lifting her skirts to her knee. All this time the waggon was swaying
forward at a good pace on a rough road; the children were weeping, the
Englishman was growling, the young woman was writhing and hysterical,
the old man was motionless, the dying man gasping for air, and the man
with the fever was shivering. Hi and the American were trying to keep
the girl in one place. The imbecile, who had decided that he liked Hi,
kept pressing close to him and patting the back of his neck. Hi, who had
no free hand, kept warding him off with his elbow; but the creature,
perhaps mistaking this for a return of affection, pressed back, cooing.

The girl suddenly shook herself free and shrieked at the top of her
voice. She did not know what she was doing; all her young muscular body
was out of control. Hi remembered tales in the Bible of people who “had
a devil”; this young woman had a devil, or the devil had her. “Look out,
kid,” the American called, “she’s into the hay-lot, your side.”

“Come back,” Hi called. “Be quiet, señorita; it’s all right. We’re all
friends here.”

“Friends,” the American said, “I guess we are. It’s these darned Santa
Barbarians who are the enemies in this land. They’ll knock my apple
season galley west. Lie still, Angelita, lie still.”

“It’s all these hidalgos,” the Englishman said. “They cause the trouble
in this land. What this land wants is to be opened up to free
competition and progress. It wants white men. These priests and these
hidalgos are fallacies; they ought to have been exploded long ago. If
the English Government doesn’t step in, it ought to be made to. My wife
is a Pinamente; one of the oldest families, if we had our rights; and
here these soldiers, these fine jacks-in-office, send her in a waggon
like this.”

“I feel for her,” the American said, “being of a darned old family
myself.”

At this moment, above the noise of the waggons, as they bumped and
lurched along, there came the whine and beat of barbaric music. The
waggons drew to the side of the track, while the music grew louder and
went by. Some hundreds of horses in twos went by, with a scuffling up of
dust and the stink of sweat, horses and hot leather.