“Say, brother,” he said, “will you shake hands and let’s be friends?”

“I can’t shake hands,” Hi said, “when you’ve got a knife in your hand.”

“The knife’s nothing. I took the knife out to cut you a nice nosegay
from all these pretty little bloody roses.”

“That was kind of you,” Hi said.

“I love you,” the man said; “you are like a lovely little angel.”

“I am, rather,” Hi said. The darkness of the man seemed to edge a shade
nearer.

“I love angels,” the man said.

“That’s right,” Hi said.

“I always loved angels,” the man said, “since a boy.”

“Stick to them,” Hi said; “you can’t do better.”

“You blasted young swine,” the man screamed, making a rush. “I’ll cut
your gall and your milt and your pancridge.”

Hi had expected the rush; he slipped to the left as it surged out at
him. The man had expected this movement; he slashed out sideways with
his knife, but missed. He was after Hi on the instant, roaring, as he
rushed, his war cry of “Harrar.” Hi twisted sharp to his right; the man
followed, he seemed horribly near. Hi heard a splash, followed by an
oath, and a fall; the man had put a foot into the drain and fallen.

Hi fled to the door into the hall, where he paused; the man had not
risen; he was lying in a heap in the well or drain, muttering oaths. The
fall may have hurt him: it had certainly knocked the fight out of him.

“Will you come and give me a hand up?” he said.

“No.”

“Oh, Lord, my leg’s broke, man; I can’t hurt you.”

“Rats.”

“God, man; I’d not leave you, if you’d got a broken leg.”

“Wouldn’t you?”

“The bone’s coming through the calf of me leg; I’m just bleeding away.”

Hi did not answer this; the man went on:

“It’s pretty poor goods,” he said, “when an Englishman will leave
another Englishman to rot in agony. Oh, the torment, it’s awful. I feel
it corrupting the blood.”

Hi was touched by the man’s moans, but did not answer. The man groaned
some more.

“Young fellow,” he said, “if I die, and I am dying, you’ll take my love
to my poor mother? Mrs. Jones, her name is. She lives at No. 27, Cowpop
Street, Sale, Cheshire. It’s the only house in the street with a brass
knocker. Say my last thought was of her. And I want you to sing “Rock of
Ages” over my tomb. It’s cruel to die in a foreign land, but I’d rest
better after “Rock of Ages”. Won’t you come and just hold my head up; I
can’t breathe; there’s darkness coming. Lift me; won’t you lift me?”

“No, I won’t,” Hi said.

“You young swine,” the man said; “it’s lucky for you you didn’t, for if
you had, I’d have settled you.”

Hi went through the door and bolted it behind him. He tiptoed swiftly
along the passage to the corridor down which the Indians had dragged
him. The corridor stretched right and left along the length of the
house. Hi could make out a staircase, the blackness of doors, and light
in one place from a half-opened door. Hi listened.

All was silent at first. Then from somewhere upstairs he heard the noise
of stealthy footsteps, moving slowly. To his right, from time to time,
there was a little light fluttering noise, as though the wind were
stirring an ill-fitting shutter or loosened jalousie. The man in the
prison yard was quiet. The smell of tobacco smoke shewed that the other
prisoner had passed that way.

Hi went quietly to the half-opened door, listened there, heard nothing
suspicious, and peeped in.

The room was lit by an oil-lamp which had been turned so low that it
stank. He could not see far into the room. From within there came again
the fluttering noise, which was now not quite that of a shutter, but
liker the yielding of paper under pressure, as though someone were
opening a book and pressing the pages down so that it should remain open
at the place. It gave Hi the sense that some industrious old man was
working there in the half darkness gumming papers together.