The man who had grappled him got him well by the throat with one hand,
while he reached back for his knife with the other. Hi saw a darkness of
face staring into his, and beyond it pine boughs and stars. Other people
were there: he smelt the scent of verbena: a woman’s voice gave a
caution. A woman seemed to be trying to open a box of matches and to
take out a match: her fingers fumbled on the matches and people
whispered. A man who came hurriedly from among the rocks struck a match
upon his trouser leg, screened and held it down. Hi saw a lot of faces
staring with surprise at him. He counted four persons: an old woman with
white hair, a girl with great black eyes, a man with a somewhat finicky
pale face, like the Aztec in the waxworks (he was the one who held the
match), and a swarthy, fierce, very splendid-looking young man who had
him by the throat. Hi noticed the muscles in the clear brown flesh of
the arms which held him. “Golly,” he thought, “this man could tear a
pack of cards across.” At this instant the match went out.

“It’s all right,” Hi said. “I’m English.”

“Inglis,” they repeated. The younger of the two women asked him in
halting English: “What you doing here?”

Hi felt inclined to ask them what they were doing there, four civilised
people, with jewels and scents, in the wilderness at midnight,
garrotting strangers. He said that he was going to Anselmo and that he
had been robbed. They seemed to understand a part of what he said, but
they were puzzled by it.

The man, who was holding him, allowed him to sit up and said something
in apology for having been so rough.

“What are they doing in the city?” the young woman asked.

“They are plundering and robbing, Señorita,” Hi said.

At this instant some horses were heard trotting near to the pine clump.
The man, who had held Hi, signed to him to remain still, while he stole
away through the scrub to see who came. In a few minutes he returned
with the riders of the horses, one of whom carried a lantern. This man
was a swarthy, bearded, elderly don, more than sixty years of age, but
still lean and alert. His face was both hard and melancholy, with
something of watchfulness stamped on it by a life passed upon a
frontier. He held up the lantern to examine Hi, while the others
repeated to him Hi’s story of Anselmo, which he did not seem altogether
to accept. “Allan Winter said there was a feeling against us,” Hi
thought. “Now here it is.” He debated whether he should tell them that
he was a White, going on a White errand. “It might be all right,” he
thought. “But supposing it were all wrong. Supposing these people were
really Reds. Then I should be in a fine mess.”

The family drew aside to debate what should be done. Presently the
daughter left the group and explained to Hi that they had to ride to
safety, that they did not doubt his good faith, but that their lives
depended on leaving no witness of their going and that, in short, Hi
must come with them.

“We are most sad to ask it,” she said, “but it is for our mother and
sister. You see, this is war. They might kill us.”

“We not take you far,” the young man said. “We set you on your journey,
when we get to friends.”

There was something good-natured and well-bred about the young man which
won Hi, who was, in any case, too utterly weary to protest. He said he
understood and would gladly do as they asked. The girl and the young man
said that it was very nice of him to take it like that. They mounted him
on one of their spare horses, and set off together, through a woodland
track, which set, for a while, to the south, and then curved west. Hi
watched the direction as well as he could by the stars, so as to keep
his bearings clear. About north-north-west was his course, he judged.
“Now here I am going south,” he thought. “The Lord alone knows when I
shall get to Anselmo.” He fell asleep on his horse and knew nothing more
of his journey till he was wakened by the horses stopping.

He saw that they had reached a point in the hill from which, looking
down a ravine, they could see far below them the lights of the town and
the glowing of the burnt house. The night wind had roused up the flames
on the last of the wreck so that it made a beacon still. The riders were
staring at this, all strangely moved. The two women were sobbing: the
men were muttering curses, or prayers that were of the nature of curses.

“Ah, the accursed, the accursed.”

“For all this they shall pay sevenfold.”

“You saints that bear the sword grant me the sword that I may smite
these accursed ones.”

“It is their home,” Hi thought, “where all their past lies burnt. They
were chased out of it and then it was fired.”