When the visitor had gone, Rosa returned to him. “I knew that there
would be trouble,” she said. “Chacon has let the murderer escape. The
Reds are warned now and all Manuel’s plan will miscarry. He’ll be
furious.”

“How did he let him escape?”

“Somebody betrayed it, and the Reds rescued him. I’ve sent Chacon to
tell General Chavez; but nothing will be done now that Manuel is away:
Chavez is an idler.

“Of course,” she added, “he may act because Manuel is away. These
soldiers and politicians are as jealous of each other as prime donne.”

“Surely,” Hi said, “this isn’t a matter for politicians, but for the
police? Surely the police will take the murderer?”

“The police?” she said. “Why, Hi, they’re married men, with families,
most of them. Do you think they’d risk their pensions by arresting a Red
on a White warrant? They’re not philanthropists.”

“What are they, then?”

“Paid partisans.”

“Golly.”

“Well may you say golly. However, that is a little thing, compared with
this marriage. I’m used to the police. I’m not used to the thought of
that man with . . .”

She had paused at the little fountain, where she gazed down into the
basin and let the fingers of one hand open and close in the water.

“But I’m not going to talk in this beastly way,” she said. “Forget what
I said, will you?

“Of course, Hi, you’ll come here whenever you like. Mother told me to
tell you that a place will be here for you at lunch on every Tuesday,
Thursday and Sunday; when you can come, we’ll be glad, and when you
can’t you needn’t write or send word. You needn’t think it’s decent of
us. We’re only too glad. You were all lovely to me at your home, and
your father simply saved us from beggary. Besides, it will be a charity
to two lorn females.”

“Thank you,” Hi said, “you’re a jolly good friend.”

“There’s my hand on that,” she said. “And when you’re settled out here,
we can always put you up. Now would you care to swim? We have a bathing
pond here. It was made in the days of our glory, but, being made, it is
easy to keep up.”

She led the way through a gap in a rose-hedge to a terrace of white
marble, in the midst of which was a swimming pool, full of clear water.

“There you are,” she said, “if ever you want a swim. A plunge now would
do us both good; but before we plunge, shall we just walk back to the
house, to see if Carlotta has returned?”

“Yes, certainly,” Hi said; “but I haven’t heard her horses.”

“Nor I,” she said. “But she ought to be back. She is the swimmer amongst
us. She does all things well, but she swims like a sea-bird.”

They found that Carlotta had not returned.

“She ought to be back by this time,” Rosa said. “But in this country
trains are sometimes late in starting, as you will find. Let us walk to
the gates, to see if she be on the road.”

They saw no one on the road, save three men with a handcart who were
coming slowly from the direction of the city and pausing at intervals to
paste handbills on walls and palings. They paused to paste a bill upon a
ruinous wall opposite the Piranhas’ gate; Rosa and Hi watched them.

“Bill-stickers,” Hi said. “I did not know that you had them here.”

“Oh, yes,” Rosa said. “We are civilised here; bills, drains and only one
wife, just like Europe. But we keep them for great occasions like
bull-fights, these bills, I mean.”

“Bull-fights,” Hi said. “Do you still have them?”

“This is the season for them; probably this is an announcement of them.”

“I’d love to see a bull-fight; it must be frightfully exciting. Do let
us wait to see what it is.”

The bill-sticker, with a few deft thrusts of his brush, set the poster
in its place. It was a yellow poster, printed in blunt black type with a
tall red heading: