“Pitubas moving out,” the American said. “I told you the Whites are
coming. They’ll fight this day and the Whites’ll whip.”

“How do you know?” the Englishman asked.

“Because I’ve been in the fighting business; had three years of it, and
I know fighters when I see them. Man for man, the Whites will put rings
round these yellow devils.”

“You lie,” the old drunken woman said suddenly, in very good English,
blinking like an owl. “Damn your soul, you lie.” She blinked, but said
no more; as it happened, it was all the English she knew. The waggon
halted by the side of the track as other music drew nearer.

“Their darned national anthem,” the American said, beginning to sing to
the tune.

We will rally to the banner of our fathers,
In the land that we lo—o—o—ove so well;
We will rally to the banner of our fathers,
In the land where our lo—o—oved ones dwell.
Red the blood that we shed for our faith,
Red the flag that we cherish to the death,
Red our hope for our enemies’ confusion
In the land that we lo—o—ove so well.

“Perro de Rojo,” the old woman screamed. “Abajo, perro de Rojo,” she
leaped up to a kneeling posture and spat in the American’s face.

“Now, now, momma,” he said, “That don’t go. You didn’t ought to spit at
people, even when you’ve bit ’em and hate the taste.”

She snarled at him like a wild beast; then, seeing foot soldiers
marching by in the dust stirred up by the Pitubas’ horses, she wrestled
her way to the tail-board of the waggon, from which she cursed them for
being Red.

“Come back into the waggon, mother,” the American said. “Gee, kid, catch
a holt of mommer. These Reds will shoot her if she don’t let up.” An
officer who was passing struck her with the flat of his sword in the
face: “Keep in,” he said. “And you, driver, get on with you into the
city.”

The waggon moved on slowly after that. Troops were passing, horse, foot
and a few guns, with waggons and gear. They were in the suburbs by this
time, among houses, in a stream of people who were setting into the
city, carrying whatever they could from their homes in the threat of
war. At the gate, there was delay and confusion; the waggon was jammed
in the crowd, waiting its turn to pass. When they came through the gate,
a big mulatto, with a bright green ostrich plume in his hat, looked
under the tilt at them, and said, “Suspecteds. Take all Suspecteds to
the Church of the Sanctity of Lopez, once called by the slaves of
superstition Trinity.”

They had not far to go to this church. They passed a public square used
as a camp for refugees, then they entered what seemed like a city of the
dead, where none stirred out from the shuttered houses. As the guards
herded them into the church once called the Trinity, Hi heard the
distant fire of rifles, popping more constantly from the region through
which he had passed.

“Skirmishers’ independent fire,” the American said. “If it comes nearer,
it’s a sign the Whites have whipped; if it dies down, it’s a sign the
Whites are whipped. Say,” he continued, to one of the Red officers at
the church-door, “we here are American and English citizens. Don’t you
think to gaol us, but send us to our Consuls.” He repeated this
pointedly in Spanish. “We’re not going to stand for being gaoled,” he
said.

“This is no gaol,” the officer explained, “but a shelter till affairs
are resolved. Whom do you wish to see?”

“The American Consul.”

“And you?”

“The English Consul,” the Englishman said.

“And you?”

“I want to go to my hotel, the Santiago,” Hi said.

“It is closed.”

“Then to the English Club.”

“That, too, is closed.”

“Then the English Consul.”