When this was about a mile behind them, the troops came over the roll of
ground into sight of the plain stretching on into the west. There,
rather more than a mile away, was a big white estancia with a haras or
horse-breeding stable beside it, below three conspicuous windmill pumps.
About half a mile beyond this, moving slowly towards Santa Barbara, was
a large body of mounted men, with flankers thrown out on both sides, and
many spare horses.

“There they are,” everybody said at once. “There it is,” Hi said to
himself. “That is Don Manuel’s army, or a part of it; and that big
breeding stable is the Elenas’ place, where I ought to have been ten
days ago.

“And now,” he thought, with a quickening pulse, “I shall probable see a
battle; and these hundred odd Reds will get licked as they deserve.”

However, the officer of his party had no intention of engaging. He hung
to the rear of the moving army for rather more than a mile: then, at a
crossing of tracks, he turned away directly to Santa Barbara and gave
the order to trot. It was perhaps ten in the morning when they left the
cross roads: it must have been mid-day when they halted at the Inn of
the Little Foxes, where a trooper, bearing a red pennon, stood at the
door: the inn being a headquarters of some kind.

The commander went into the inn to report and to ask for orders. He was
gone for a quarter of an hour, during which a shot was fired a mile or
two to the west. It was followed by several shots, of different
qualities, answering each other. After this, though the firing often
almost ceased, and sometimes sounded from further away, it never quite
ceased and on the whole drew nearer. It was all independent firing.

It reminded Hi of the sounds of pheasant shooting at home in the
unpreserved downland coverts where birds are scarce.

When the commander came out, another officer was with him. This one
seemed to be a general, preparing to ride. He was flicking his spotless
boots with a silk handkerchief, and walking with an arch of the legs
caused partly by tight breeches, partly by affectation. “Where is this
English fellow?” he called.

“There, sir,” the commander said. “Bring him up, you.” Hi was led
forward.

“I believe, boy, that you are a spy,” the general said. “I’ve a good
mind to shoot you. Most soldiers in my place would shoot you. As it
happens, my orders are not to shoot aliens, but to send them in for
trial; which I shall do. You will go in to Santa Barbara till your case
can be sifted a little. Any misfortune which happens to you you will
have brought upon yourself.” He called in Spanish to some troopers to
take Hi to the waggons which were about to start under escort to the
city. He also gave them a few written words about Hi’s case for the
escort commander. As Hi now knew what answer any officer would give to
him, if he replied, he held his peace. The troopers gave him into the
charge of the escort of the waggon, who told him, in English, to get
into a waggon. When Hi asked which waggon, for there were half a dozen
tilted army waggons all of one pattern, the man told him that he did not
care which waggon, but that if he did not get into one straightaway he
would break his face. “Get into that one there,” he cried, “and don’t
show your face outside the tilt or you’ll get a butt in the lip.”

“You can’t come in here,” an Englishman, inside the waggon said, “this
one is full up.”

“What are you waiting for?” the escort called. “Get in.”

“It is full up,” Hi said.

“Full up,” the man replied. “Who says it’s full up? You sacred suspects
should all be shot if I’d my way. I’ll see if you’re full up. Get in.
Make way for him, you. Now get in.” With a cudgel which he carried he
poked the suspects till they made room; then Hi was thrust in among
them.

The waggon was full. It contained an Englishman with a Spanish wife and
three little children; an elderly American in the pineapple trade; an
imbecile of doubtful nationality who dribbled at the mouth and gurgled
in the throat; a strong young native woman in hysterics; an old woman
who was drunk; her grandson, who had eaten something which had disagreed
with him; three native men, one of them very old and infirm, the second
shot in the body, unconscious and plainly near death, the third in a
dreadful condition with fever. On the top of the discomforts of Hi’s
entrance, the waggons started.

“Why couldn’t you have gone to one of the other waggons?” the Englishman
said. “You could have seen that this was full, one would have thought.”

“I had to do what I was told,” Hi said. “It’s not my fault.”

“At least you can give a lady room,” the man replied, “you can see that
there’s a lady here in an interesting condition.”