“What say you?”

“Sir, I must go to Anselmo.”

“Ah,” Don Pablo said with a smile, turning to the men, “He says that he
must go to Anselmo. _Must go_; this very important English word. No,
sir,” he said, turning to Hi, “you may go to your Reds in Carpinteria,
or you may go home to your English in England; no one shall stop you; it
is a healthy walk, for you English are accustomed to walk; but you shall
not go to Anselmo. You shall not go to Anselmo, because it is a special
place, which I am determined that you shall not see.”

His face, as he spoke, became gorged with blood like the wattles of a
turkey cock. Having settled Hi, as he judged, he turned to the assembled
men and made them a long harangue in Spanish. Long afterwards Hi learned
that the purpose of the meeting was to keep the Pituba raiders out of
that part of Meruel. The men there were Whites, but anti-clerical and,
on the whole, in favour of Lopez, because he was a Meruel man. Pablo’s
purpose, at that moment, was to get the party to ride to a well-known
ranch to get from it the reinforcement of its company.

All there seemed pleased at his suggestion, except those whose mansion
had been burned in Ribote. These retired in a group in some indignation
when the others left the room. Hi was left alone in the great room, save
for the broad, good-humoured maid, who was gathering up the bombillas.
She was a friendly soul; she made remarks in Spanish to Hi, so that he
might feel at ease.

“Many bombillas.”

“Si,” Hi answered.

“Better many guests than many locusts.”

This was beyond Hi, who grinned. After a little time, she added, with a
sigh:

“There are more guests than lovers.”

Hi did not know what she said, but he answered, in English, “Such is
life.”

After some twenty minutes of talking outside the house the assembled men
mounted their horses, which had been kicking and snapping at each other,
from anger at the cold, through all the hours of the discussion. Even
when they had mounted they made no effort to start. They continued to
discuss till it was broad daylight, when they all set off together.

Anton entered with his sister. He came up to Hi to apologise for Don
Pablo.

“It is absurd,” he said, “that that man should have stopped your going
to Anselmo. There is no reason why you shouldn’t go to Anselmo. Of
course you may go there.”

“I have no horse,” Hi said. “Would you lend me a horse so that I could
go there?”

“Do you know the way?” the girl asked.

“No.”

“It must be forty kilometres and a difficult way except through Ribote.”

“I could find it,” Hi said.

The brother and sister looked at each other with some hesitation. Hi was
afraid that they were wondering whether to trust a tramp, who came at
midnight, with neither collar nor tie, from God knows where.

“I am sorry to say,” he said, “that I have got no money with me, but Mr.
Winter, of Quezon, beyond Santa Barbara, knows me, and Señora Piranha
and her daughter know me.”

“Rosa Piranha?” the girl said. “You know her?”

“Very well. Do you?”

“We were at the convent together,” the girl said. “Of course we will
lend you a horse. What is your name?”

“Ridden. Will you tell me yours?”

“We are Ribotes,” she said. “But what makes us consider is, the road to
Anselmo. It is no road, my brother says.”

“It is a bad road,” Anton said.

“I don’t mind how bad it is as long as it is a road,” he said. “And I’ll
not let your horse down or give him a sore back or anything; I swear I
won’t. And I don’t know how to thank you for saying you will lend me
one. The point is, getting him back to you. I’m going to the Elenas, the
horse-breeders, of Anselmo; I am sure they would send him back or I
would bring him back myself, if you would not mind waiting a few days.”