“Rosa, my daughter,” Donna Emilia said, “I have had such a strange
message from Señora Artigas. Her son, Estifanio, has disappeared.”

“We passed him in the cathedral last night, mother, at about six or
half-past, as we left the service.”

“He was at home after that. At nearly midnight two young men, in evening
dress, called for him to say that Porfirio Rivera, his great friend, had
been hurt in a duel, was dying, and had asked for him. Estifanio did not
know the young men; but, of course, he went with them, and he has not
returned.”

“If his friend were dying, mother, he would stay with him.”

“But the story was false, my dear. Porfirio called for Estifanio this
morning; he had fought no duel, is in perfect health, and has sent no
message. Estifanio has disappeared. Imagine his mother’s anxiety.”

Hi saw Rosa and Carlotta look at each other with a glance which he could
not interpret. He felt that there was trouble and that he had better say
something.

“We had a fellow at school,” he said, “who disappeared one summer
holidays. He went out in a boat with another fellow. The boat upset, but
they were picked up by a steamer. However, the steamer was carrying the
mails and could not stop, so these two fellows had to go all the way to
New York before they could send a message home. They’d both been buried,
or at least had the burial-service read over them by that time.”

“Estifanio will turn up, in the same way, mother,” Rosa said.

“I trust so,” the old lady said. “Suddenness of death is ever a thing I
pray God to spare my friends.”

“Estifanio is a great hunter,” Carlotta said. “He rides out to this
‘drag,’ do you call it? which the English have started. Are you fond of
hunting, Mr. Ridden?” He thought her an angel of tact to have changed
the conversation a little.

“I love riding,” he said, “but of course, my father only lets me ride
the old crocks. Still, sometimes he lets me be his second horseman, and
then I have had some wonderful times.”

“Rosa said that you are fond of engines.”

“Yes, I love engines.”

“So do I,” she said. “I’m racing my brother with one. He is having an
irrigation canal dug by men, and I am doing a little bit of it with
machines; but the nature of the ground doesn’t make it quite a fair
match. What engines interest you most?”

“No particular engine,” he said, “but more the nature of engines. I’m
always thinking of all sorts of little engines which everybody could
have. For instance, a little engine to sweep the floor of a room, or
dust walls, or clean big glass panes like the windows of shops. Then, I
expect you’ll think it very silly, but don’t you think one could have a
little engine on a boat?”

“Oh, the engine on a boat,” Rosa said. “Hi is a lovely character,
Carlotta. He would die for me or for you at a moment’s notice; but the
engine on a boat is his mad streak. Of course it’s nice to have a mad
streak; it shows the oldness of your family; but there it is.”

“Why should there not be an engine on a boat?” Carlotta asked. “What
sort of little engine do you mean, Mr. Ridden?”

“Oh, call him Hi, Carlotta,” Rosa said. “This is his home here,
remember; call him Hi.”

“I don’t know whether he will let me,” Carlotta said.

“I’ll be frightfully proud if you will,” Hi said, and blushed scarlet,
and knew that Rosa watched the blush.

“What sort of engine . . . Hi?” Carlotta asked.

“Thank you,” he said, wondering whether he would ever be able to save
her life and in reward be asked to call her Carlotta.

“You see,” he said, “Rosa is always ragging. She worked at this engine
when she was in England. You see, we live in a part of England which is
mostly rolling grass hills. We call them downs, but they are really a
sort of ups. Well, we are a good long way from the Thames; too far to go
for a day’s boating. Now I’m not much good at rowing, but I do love
messing about in a boat. I mean, being in a boat.”

“I do, too,” Carlotta said; “there is a sort of lake at home. I go out
in a boat to watch the flamingoes.”