“Right,” Hi said, “I’ll be silent. But I say, Rosa; I wish you’d tell me
why you didn’t bow or smile or anything when those market people cheered
you.”

“Did it seem very bad manners?”

“It struck me as a little odd.”

“We’re Whites,” she answered. “We’re watched pretty closely. What is to
stop the Reds from sending agents to cheer the Whites in our presence,
and watching whether we applaud? What would stop them arresting us for
fomenting party feeling or ‘encouraging White excesses,’ as they would
call it?”

“They couldn’t,”

“Why not? What is to stop them?”

“For smiling and bowing just because people cheer you?”

“Yes, Hi, and for even looking as though you wished to smile and bow.
‘Gestures prejudicial to civil peace,’ is the phrase they use, or
‘conduct deemed to be provocative of civil disturbance,’ that is
another.”

“Arrest you and your mother?”

“Yes, rather; like billio.”

“But, good Lord, what are the Whites doing to let these Reds do these
things? They must be jugginses.”

“There aren’t many Whites on this side of Santa Barbara: the Whites are
all in the west.”

“Yes; but they must know.”

“It isn’t so easy as it sounds. The Whites did a lot of stupid things
when they were in power; trying to stop the Schools Acts and other Acts
which the Reds had just passed; naturally the Reds were furious.”

“Yes; but hang it all, Rosa, stopping a sort of Act of Parliament is
done in a civilised way, by law; but these Reds have brought in all
these yellow devils. I can’t see why the Whites allow that.”

“The Pitubas? We’re used to them here. They’re not so bad as they look.
They don’t eat all the babies they’re credited with. They may munch a
finger here and there. What I mind is the censorship and the spying, and
the knowledge that all the time these Red officers are making dossiers
against all whom one holds dear: false dossiers, with forged evidence,
which they may use.”

“Why should they use them?”

“You haven’t seen the gang who governs us? They are in touch with a set
of people who want to ‘open up’ this land, as they call it and will pay
for the privilege. Naturally, they would get their money back a
hundredfold. Since the Whites stand in the way, naturally the Reds want
to get rid of them; and the dirty way is the way the Reds take by
nature, being what they are, people without dignity and without belief.”

“I don’t know anything about it, of course,” Hi said, “but I should have
thought it would be a good thing to get opened up a bit: have a few more
railways and get more of the land under cultivation.”

“If a gang of scoundrels came down on England, to open England up a bit,
would you like that, Hi?”

“Father always says that that is what is always happening in England, so
I suppose we are used to it.”

“Well, we aren’t. Now I’ve got heaps to do. I’ve got to cut all this
linen to pattern for our children’s Easter frocks. So although you may
not think it a manly job, I want you to help me at it, will you, like a
brick? We’ll open this linen up a bit to make little panties for our
bambini.”

Hi was always ready for any job. They set to work.

“By the way, Hi,” Rosa said, “my cousin, Carlotta de Leyva, will be here
at lunch. She talks English, so you needn’t be scared.”

“I shan’t be scared, if she’s anything like you,” he said.

“Well, she isn’t, worse luck,” Rosa said. “But I thought I’d have you
alone to warn you. Carlotta is a very special person. She’s not like
anybody else; but it’s no good your falling in love with her.”

“All right,” he said; “I shan’t fall in love.”