“Are you being pleasant?” the man asked. “You’re doing ‘Oh, the
starlight’; but they’re cocky little bleeders, stars.”

They walked on together for a minute, till they were in the midst of a
grove, where a night singing bird was making a plaintive, exquisite
haunting call. The man paused.

“What was the nime of the plice you was goin’ to?” he asked.

“Anselmo.”

“Anselmo, that was it; Anselmo.” He seemed to think for an instant.
“Well, there’s no plice of that nime anywheres abaht ’ere.”

“But you said you knew it,” Hi said.

“What was the nime agine?”

“Anselmo.”

“Oh, Anselmo,” the man said, “the plice you see over there?”

“No; over there,” Hi said, turning to point. Some instinct told him to
look out, but it came a fraction of a second too late. He never knew
certainly what happened next, because he was knocked unconscious by a
blow on the point of his jaw, which ended the world for him for four
minutes.

When he came to himself, with a dizzy head full of confusion, he tried
to stand, but found that his feet hurt. Groping down to find out why, he
found that his shoes were gone. Instead of them, a pair of old white
deck shoes, with rubber soles, lay beside him in the track. Then a
certain slackness at his waist seemed unaccustomed. He put his hand to
his waist and found that his money belt was gone; then he found that his
pockets had been searched: he had been robbed. He called aloud at this.
Then he looked about for his companion, whom he at once judged to be the
thief. There was neither sight nor sound of him. He had vanished into
the night where he belonged. There was no sound of anyone running, no
noise of steps, nor of bushes being thrust aside. The bird was still
making a plaintive call in the tree.

“I can’t think what has happened,” Hi said. He sat down to try to
compose himself. When he began to know that he had been knocked out, he
wondered, “for how long?” The stars had not changed position much, so
far as he could see, and there was still some warmth or so he thought in
the toes of the shoes.

“He knocked me out and robbed me,” he thought. “I’d gladly have gone
halves with him. I don’t know what the deuce to do now. Well, I must get
to Anselmo, that’s the first thing. And it must be nearly midnight by
this time and I’m further from Anselmo than I was when I started.”

He put on the deck shoes. There was a meanness in the theft of his shoes
which hurt him more even than the loss of his precious pocket-book with
the sprig of hermosita. When he had put on the shoes and felt their
discomforts, as well as their kind, which was specially loathsome to
him, he walked back to the town, he could not afterwards tell why. He
had no very clear thought of what he was doing nor of what he ought to
do, for the brains were still shaky in his head from the knock upon his
jaw.

When he turned into the street in front of the city hall, he saw some of
the lancers, followed by a mob, riding uphill towards him. He turned
uphill away from them, till he was out of the town, in a rocky path near
a pine wood. The lancers paused at the city hall, as though to bivouac.
Hi felt a deadly weariness overcoming the need of reaching Anselmo.

“I am done,” he thought. “I have done nothing, but I have been through a
good deal to-day. I must rest for a bit before I go on.” He was cold as
well as weary, for the cold sea breeze was blowing. “It must be
midnight,” he thought. “I will rest for just an hour among those rocks.
If I had only not spoken to that officer at La Boca, I would have been
fifty miles on beyond Anselmo by this.”

He was so stupid from fatigue and the blow that he paid little heed to
his going, as he pushed through the scrub towards what looked like
shelter. Suddenly he caught a whiff of scent, a rustle of movement and a
gleam of something: he was aware that people were hiding there. A
startled somebody, speaking intensely, in a hiss of anxiety, said
“Padre? . . . padre mio?”

“I’m not the man,” Hi said.

Immediately somebody surged out of the darkness, flung him down and got
him by the throat. He realised at once that he was in the hands of
someone much stronger than himself, who could break his neck at will, if
he made a noise. Some years before, at the Old Berks Steeplechases, he
had seen a welsher caught by the crowd. When overtaken, the man had
fallen and lain perfectly still, as though dead; this came back to Hi on
the instant as wise.