The German came slowly towards him, waving with his left arm towards the
left.

“Dot der way to Anselmo,” he said. “You mind out at der ford.”

“Thank you for your help,” Hi said.

“Very welcome.”

The German turned back to his hoeing and Hi set out upon his path. When
he was out of sight of that settlement, really on his way to Anselmo, he
thought of those warning words, “You mind out at the ford.”

“You meet highwaymen at the fords,” his father had said, “or did in my
day, but I expect it’s all altered since then.”

“I wonder what that German meant,” he thought. “Perhaps that devil
Bright Tooth may be playing some trick, but probably what he meant was
that the floods are out. It will be rotten if I can’t get across.”

Then the question rose in his mind how far Anselmo was. “Twelve or
fifteen miles,” he thought. “I can be there by 5 or 5.30 and I will be.”

He whacked up the horse into a solitude of rocky barren, densely grown
with small thorn and prickly pear. The strangeness of the landscape, the
blueness of the sky where the eagles were cruising for their prey and
the glory of the adventure on which he rode made his ride a dream of
delight for some miles, till the rocks on both sides of him grew in
towards him, so that he rode in a kind of gully, where the hooves made
more echo than he liked. The gloom of the place was made greater by the
prevalence of the pudding-cactus, which exuded over his path like
jellyfish flecked with blood or snakes which had been pressed to death.
Multitudes of flies feasting on the stickiness of the plant gave it the
appearance of corruption. In nearly all the puddles there were snakes.
The noise of the echoes of the horse’s hooves became louder and louder.
Hi, looking back, saw that a horse and man were coming after him.

The man was bent down in his seat with his sombrero jammed down over his
eyes. He had a look of Bright Tooth. His horse looked like the dark
chestnut mare which Hi had seen in the stable. She had seemed a beauty
then, if a little small. She showed like a beauty now in the grace of
her going.

“It’s Bright Tooth all right,” Hi thought. “I’ll bet he comes for no
good.”

Seeing that he was seen, the man sat up and called to Hi to stop. He was
certainly Bright Tooth.

“Why should I stop?” Hi thought. “I am not going to stop for a swine
like that. Let him jolly well catch me up and explain.”

As he saw that Bright Tooth was not carrying a gun, he rode on, though
Bright Tooth called repeatedly something about stopping or returning, to
which Hi answered, “Si,” or “Bueno” or “That’s the ticket.” Bright Tooth
pressed his horse up to Hi’s off quarter with the cry, “You Englishman
return.” He motioned back towards the cross roads.

“I am not going to return,” Hi said.

“Then you give back the horse, see?” Bright Tooth cried.

“I don’t see,” Hi said. “Why should I?”

They were now riding side by side at a good speed, because both horses
thought that it was a race.

“You turn back, see,” Bright Tooth cried. He motioned backwards, shaking
his head.

“All right, old sport,” Hi said. He did not turn, nor did he mean to
turn; he kept on, with an eye for the road and the next move. He shoved
his stick into his bridle hand, so as to have his right hand free.

“Give up the horse, see?” Bright Tooth cried again. “Your money bad. Bad
English money.” He gave a violent imitation of biting a coin and being
sick. “You come back,” he cried, “or pay good money.”

“Rats,” Hi said.

“Your money bad.”

“The money was good,” Hi said.

“You pay more money. Another sovereign, see?”

“I won’t pay a red cent more.”

Bright Tooth shot forward, stooped and made a clutch at Hi’s rein. The
yellow horse shied away from him, so that he missed his clutch and
nearly fell. Hi, too, was nearly off. He recovered first. He dropped his
right hand to the pocket where he kept his knife. He poked the end of
the knife from within the pocket towards Bright Tooth, as though it were
a revolver muzzle. He had read somewhere of men shooting through the
pocket. He called out, “All right, old sport, I’ve got you covered.
Cuidado.” He did not know what cuidado meant; but he had heard the third
officer in the _Recalde_ use the word as an alarm note. He saw Bright
Tooth whip out a knife with a blade a foot long, sharp on two edges and
spear-pointed.