“Oh, but they must be,” he said.

“Sorry?” she said. “Alas, they are thanking God that my lover is out of
the way at this time. You do not know the Whites: how broken we are into
cliques. My brother, a great man in so many ways, dreads and hates my
lover: he thinks him too dangerous: he wants Bazan to lead the party. If
Manuel were here now, Bazan would not stand for five minutes. Then, I
suppose, my brother would challenge Manuel to a duel. So, if I bring
Manuel back, I break with all I have loved in the past.”

“But you will bring him back,” Hi said.

She looked at him in a way which he never forgot; but she did not
answer.

“Let me go and bring him back for you,” Hi pleaded. “Of course, I’m only
a boy, but I’ll go like a shot. I’ll take any message you like. Do let
me. I’ll never be anything again all my life, probably, except just a
planter. But just this once let me ride for you. I only saw you for the
first time this morning; but you don’t know what you are to me . . . in
my life, I mean . . . you I mean, just there being such a person. Of
course, you’re sick of men saying this to you. Miss de Leyva, will you
let me go?”

“Carlotta will not let you go,” she said, “I’m sure Miss de Leyva won’t.
But I cannot bring Manuel here, against my brother’s prayers, even if I
would, from his mother’s death-bed. But there is one thing which I wish
you would do for me: take a note from me to Rosa.”

“Of course, I’ll gladly take a note,” he said, “and bring back an
answer.”

“There will be no answer. You will just have time to leave the note and
get back to your hotel before the streets are cleared.”

While she wrote the note, Hi thought of a suggestion.

“I say,” he said. “Quite apart from calling Don Manuel here, there is
some point in letting him know the news and telling him not to come.
Couldn’t you let me do that for you?”

“You’re very determined, Hi,” she said. “But you must stay in Santa
Barbara and keep out of our politics.”

“But why? You will have to send someone.”

“I will not send you, Hi.”

“Why not? Have you anybody better?”

“There could not be anybody better, nor as good; but this is not a thing
I could let you attempt. Do you know, that if the Reds were to find you
doing this you might be expelled the country, or even shot.”

“For taking a message?”

“That counts as spying in time of war.”

“Who would know that I was taking a message? I should just be an English
tourist. That settles it. I’ll go off and get a horse and start at once
and find him and tell him.”

“No, no,” she said. “It is impossible.”

“Because I’m a boy and don’t know Spanish?”

“No, no, indeed,” she said, “but because we want you to settle here.
Become a citizen later, if you wish, but, until then, you must avoid our
troubles. Now here is my note to Rosa, if you will deliver it.”

It was very dim in the hall away from the tapers on the writing table.
There were amphoræ full of sweet-smelling shrubs. He could see her face
and hands against the darkness of the leaves: her head seemed crowned by
white flowers. She switched on some lights so that the hall seemed
suddenly full of armed men.

“Will you give me a sprig of those flowers?” he asked.

“Willingly.” She broke a spray for him.

“What is the flower?”

“Hermosita.”

“May I ever see you again?”

“Of course. Come to-morrow to lunch: you must meet my brother.”

“Oh, thank you. I’ll bring back an answer from Rosa, if she sends one.
Anything that I can ever do for you will always be absolute happiness;
you know that, don’t you?”