“He show you,” the woman said in English.

“Is it far to Anselmo?” Hi asked.

The man said he could not understand.

“I don’t understand, either,” Hi thought, “what you two have been up to,
here in the forest. You aren’t living here; you only came here an hour
ago; because there are no tracks to the door, except brand new ones. Why
do you two come here in the rains to pack something in blankets? What
were you packing in blankets?” What indeed?

The man led him past the two tethered horses into the forest on the
trail by which the horses had come there an hour or so before. Hi had
noticed horse tracks ever since he was a child: he noticed suddenly the
tracks of a third horse in the soft earth. Three horses had come towards
the shack that morning: the third had gone off suddenly into the forest.
Why?

The man led on, saying nothing, but thinking the more. Glancing back, Hi
saw the woman moving from the shack into the forest. “I wonder if I’m
going to be led round to meet her,” he thought. “And if so, why?”
Glancing forward, Hi saw that the man was looking at him with a strange
expression.

“I believe they’re up to no good,” he thought. “I’ll get out of it.”

For a moment, he did not know how to get out of it, nor how he could
manage without a guide if he did. Then the certainty that this couple
were wicked urged him to act. Something said in his brain, “Behind that
door they had a lad like you, whom they had murdered.” A picture formed
in his brain of the woman behind the door, rolling a body in a blanket.
Whenever she rolled the body face up, the face which showed was his own.
“It may be all imagination,” he thought, “but I’ll go on alone.”

He checked the horse, with a sign to the man: he did not know what on
earth he was to do next.

“Dis donc,” he said in a mixed speech. “Esta Anselmo loin d’ici? Anselmo
. . . sabe? Anselmo, est il bien loin? La ville d’Anselmo, est il far?”

The man nodded his head and grinned, as though to reassure him.
Something in the man’s face, the pouchy look under the eyes, reminded Hi
of one of the portraits of Henry VIII: it looked evil from evil done and
evil planning. The man turned to his path and seemed about to lead the
horse off the trail. “I daresay,” Hi thought, “the woman is the shot:
she has the revolver. He’ll lead me round to her and she’ll pot me from
behind a bush. Yet he’s as strong as an ox. I can’t hit him or break
from him without getting the worst of it. What can I do?”

The voice in his brain said, “Scare him”; but he did not seem to be an
easy man to scare. “I could make the horse shy,” he thought, “though if
I do that, I may be bucked off myself.”

“Dis donc,” he said again, “sont ils beaucoup de guardias civiles in
Anselmo? Moi, je ne veux pas le police. Sabe? Comprende Usted? Police?
Muchas guardias me muchas afraido.”

The man said something in his sullen way that all would be well, better
than well: again he turned to his task, leading the horse off the trail.

“Things are getting to be critical,” Hi thought. “I must try a scare.”

He was about to try some sudden startling of the horse, when the woman
called out something. The man stopped and shouted in reply: from the
woman’s answer Hi made out that she wanted the man for some reason, to
do something which she could not do. “Wants him to load the revolver,
probably,” he thought. The man seemed vexed at the request: he seemed to
ask if she could not manage as she was: she answered “No.”

The man growled in his throat. “Bah. Las mujeres.” He let go the rein,
with a look of threat and misgiving. He said something to Hi, which
seemed to mean: “You stay here a minute: I’ll be back directly.” He
strode off in the direction from which the woman had called. Hi let him
go about ten yards, then he turned his horse, and urged him up. The man
turned and called out to him to stop. Glancing back, as the horse got
into his stride, Hi saw the man running back to where the horses were
tethered.

“The brute’s going to chase me,” he thought. “And he’ll track me, even
if I dodge him. The worst of it is, that I don’t know whether I am
headed for Anselmo or the new Jerusalem; but I must come out somewhere
if I keep on. This forest can’t go on for ever.”

This was true; but he had a memory of his father saying, “The forest
goes all the way to Cualimaçu on the Matulingas, 1,500 miles if its an
inch.” If he happened to be heading for Cualimaçu, his journey to
Anselmo was likely to be protracted. For the moment, however, his
thought was to get away from these people.