By this time, he had slung his rifle by its bandolier to the crutch in
the post. Hi could see the initials D. W. burned upon the stock: it had
been Wigmore’s rifle in the past. Hi was uneasy at the way the man spoke
about Wigmore: he wished to know more.

“It’s a pretty awful end,” Hi said, “to die out here in the wilderness,
all those thousands of miles from home.”

“Damned sight better end than being poisoned by doctors in a frowsy
hospital.”

“I wish we could make out enough bits of letters to find out where his
people are,” Hi said.

“There aren’t any letters, I told you.”

“There are bits of letters, because I saw them. Do you know, there is
one way we could find out about him?”

“How?” the man asked, with a sudden close attention.

“From people in Santa Barbara. He had a letter addressed to him in the
care of a French firm in Santa Barbara. I expect that they were his
agents. There can’t be more than two or three French houses in Santa
Barbara. I could enquire at them all, and through them we could easily
find out where he came from.”

“Agents? A French firm?” the man said. “You mean Chardenal? It is a
general stores in Santa Barb’. He used to get his stores there. They
weren’t his agents: he was a customer there. As a matter of fact, I sent
an Indio in with a chit to them when Wigmore died to cancel his last
order. They know that he is dead.”

“Wouldn’t they know where he came from?”

“He was a very dark horse, Wigmore. He never told that to me, in all the
months we were together. I don’t see why he should have told his
grocers.”

“I suppose you don’t know any English town with a name ending in
‘allet,’ do you?” Hi asked.

“Allet?” the man said, suspiciously. “No, I don’t know any bally
‘allet.’ If you’d ask my opinion, I should say you were getting Wigmore
on the brain. Are you sure you’ve not got a touch of forest fever? It
often begins like that: getting excited about somebody’s bally corpse
and that.”

“I’m not excited about him,” Hi said. “Only it is rather rough on his
mother and girl, if they are wondering about him, and hoping to hear
from him all this time.”

“As I said before,” the man said, “I don’t believe for one moment that
he had a mother and girl. In all the months I knew him I never knew him
mention them nor have any letter from them. Put him out of your mind. He
was a dark horse and a tank. It’s my believe that he was wanted for
something: anyway he was under a cloud. Now about yourself: you say you
want to get to Anselmo? Is that near Santa Barbara? Well, if it is, it’s
seventy miles from here; and here is twenty miles from any road there.”

“Could you let one of your Indios guide me to the road there, early
to-morrow?” Hi asked. “My eyes are well enough. The swelling will
probably be quite gone by to-morrow.”

“I couldn’t, to-morrow,” the man said.

“Why not? I’d be ever so much obliged if you would.”

“I couldn’t send an Indio to-morrow: he wouldn’t go if I did: it will be
one of their moon-feasts.”

“Well, then; why not to-night?”

“You’re not fit to go to-night: besides, these Aracuis won’t move a step
at night. I don’t blame them. The snakes are abroad. Then there are
tigers. Besides, there are too many ghosts for them.”

“I would chance the ghosts,” Hi said, “if you would direct me on my
way.”

“You would never find your way,” the man said. “I couldn’t hope to show
it to you in a first quarter moon.”

“Will you show it to me to-morrow?”

“Yes, I’ll show it to you to-morrow.”

“Early; first thing? Would you mind starting early, so that I may reach
the road before dark?”