“A man is judged by what his uncle is. In this country, thank God,
having respectable relations counts for a good deal, and so it should.
You’re a Ridden and a Foliat, and I’m not going to have you messing an
honoured name with wheel-grease because you’ve read some damned
subversive rag which you’ve neither the sense to drop nor the wit to
judge. There are some things which a man can do and keep his
self-respect and be asked out to dinner, but going round with a spanner
isn’t one of them.”

“I don’t ask to go round with a spanner, sir, nor to be asked out to
dinner.”

“What do you ask, then?”

“I would like to learn engineering, sir, because I’ve always enjoyed
engines and the application of power, and that sort of thing.”

“What do you call that but going round with a spanner? And how do you
propose to learn engineering?”

“I hoped, sir, that you would let me go to an engineering works.”

“Engineering works be damned.”

“I don’t see it, sir. It’s the thing I should do best.”

“Well, I do see it, sir, and it’s the thing I won’t have.”

“But why not, sir? I should work at it. I shouldn’t disgrace you.”

“Your notions of disgrace aren’t mine. Your notions of disgrace are the
sort of damned sentiment that will wreck this country and all that’s in
it.”

“I don’t see why, sir. I don’t want to argue with you, sir; but it is
important to me: what I am to do all my life.”

“It is equally important to me that my son should not make a mistaken
choice.”

“But what a man most wants to do, sir, can’t be a mistaken choice.”

“You’re not a man; but a damned young ass. That being so, and it is so,
it’s for me to decide. I’ve got to supply the money whatever you do; I
suppose you won’t deny that.”

“I was wondering, sir, whether you would advance to me Aunt Melloney’s
money, that I’m to have when I’m of age, and let me pay for myself.”

“Pay what for yourself?”

“The fees or premiums, sir, for going through the shops.”

“So that’s what the fellow meant, was it? Now I know. ‘The shops,’ he
said. There was a drunken engineer at Newmarket, who said, ‘Let the
gentleman keep clear of the shops.’ He was drunk when he said it; but
that’s what he meant; now I know; and he showed a fine sense of the
situation.”

“Would you advance me the money, sir?”

“I’ll do nothing of the sort. These engineers and fellows are a gang I
will not tolerate. They defile God’s country. They’ve already spoiled
the hunting, and the racing’s following as fast as it can go. If you’d
been a boy with any guts, instead of clockwork, you’d have been glad, I
should have thought, to have been at home here, and borne a hand in the
stable. Breeding is about the last thing this poor country’s got in
these damned days. We’ve still got horses, thank God. We don’t depend on
a traction-engine gang, doing a tenth of the work for double the money.
Why don’t you take off your coat and come into the stable? It’s a needed
job; a pleasant job; and a gentleman’s job, what’s more. What’s wrong
with that?”

“Nothing, sir; but I’m not very good at horses. Besides, you’ve got Bell
in the stables. I should only be in the way.”

“Ashamed of working with your sister, are you?”

“No, sir; but Bell wouldn’t want me there, and you’d always be swearing
at me.”

“Damme,” Bill said, “there are things in you boys that would make any
father swear. You go to a prep. school for three years, then to a public
school for five years, then you ask to be kept for another seven while
you learn a profession, and by God, when you’ve learnt it, you can’t
make a living at it. I’ve been talking to your mother about this, as
well as to Rosa Piranha before she sailed. You’ll not go back to school,
that I’m resolved on, after this last report. You’ll stay here a week or
two to get some clothes, and then you’ll do what I did. You’ll go to
Santa Barbara and see if you can keep your head above water by your own
hands. If you can, well and good. You will have letters to people; a lot
better people than I ever had; and you will have time given you to look
about you. You ought to be able to make good; I don’t say in copper,
that is over, but in a new land there are new things and new
opportunities. There are always sugar, tobacco and ranching; there
should be timber, cocoa, piacaba, countless things. As I said, you ought
to be able to make good. If you can’t, it will be your own lookout.
You’ve got to paddle your own canoe, like any other youngest son. Now
I’m not going to have any argument about the superior beauties of
cog-wheels. I’ve written to people and written about your ticket. Since
you won’t work in the stable here and have no choice of your own, except
a damned dirty falallery which I won’t have, you’ll go to Santa Barbara.
You may count yourself more than lucky to have the chance. Very few
youngest sons ever get into the sun at all, but stink in a rotten town,
by God, where even the horses puke at the air they breathe.