“I’ll start fairly early.”

“Will you tell me what you are?” Hi said. “I mean, what you do out here
in the wilderness?”

“I?” the man said. “I’m one of the damned lost souls, who like my own
way and mind my own business.”

“Certainly,” Hi said. “I didn’t mean to be inquisitive.”

“You say you haven’t any money?”

“No.”

“Do you play cribbage?”

“Yes.”

“It’s not much fun playing anything without having something on the
game. Haven’t you got a ticker?”

“Yes, but the water’s got into it. It’s stopped.”

“Then you haven’t got a tosser?”

“No.”

“Damn well on your uppers?”

“Yes.”

“My God, My Father, while I stray. You’d better go and turn in, then, if
you want this early start. I can’t play beggar-my-neighbour with you,
like a damned kid. Next time you look in, you’d better bring some
ooftish to cover your cards with: your mess-bills, too, if you don’t
mind.”

“I’m sorry that I’ve no money,” Hi said. “But as for mess-bills, if
you’ll tell me your name and agents, I’ll pay what you think fair for
what I have had here. Or you can take my watch. It is a good one and
nearly new: it will go well when cleaned.”

“We’ll talk about bills to-morrow,” the man said. “You’d better go and
turn in.”

“Very well. Good-night.”

The man did not answer. He stood staring at Hi out of his cold, hard
blue eyes: his lip was lifted in a sneer. Hi felt that he had never yet
met a man so hateful. “He is a loathsome swine,” he thought. “A vile,
taunting, silver-ring tick.”

He came to his hut and again had the sensation that someone was there:
this time so strongly that he called out. “Yes, who is it, there?”
before he saw that there was no one. “It is odd,” he said, “I keep
thinking that there’s a man here. I’ve got to be all jumpy from being in
the forest; and then, this hammock-post is like a man, and gives me the
illusion every time. I wish there were a man here, Dudley Wigmore or
another; then I might not be so dependent on this sneering devil.”

Still raging against the man, he turned into his hammock to think of
things which did not bear thought; Carlotta and Rosa depending on him;
Carlotta’s marvellous grace, beauty and goodness; now in gaol among
blackguards at the whim of a madman; then, himself, who was to have
saved her, all astray in a forest, all those miles from even beginning
to send word about her. There was no sleep for one with thoughts like
that.

Sleep would not have been easy in any case, for the village was
celebrating something, a hunt or a moon-feast: he could not tell what.
Half a dozen drums were beating. Presently the boys of the tribe lit a
bonfire in the midst of the _patio_ or space in the midst of the
village. They piled it high with wood which the women had collected
during the day. As soon as it burned well, they began to march round it,
blowing into horns of one note and flutes of two notes: some of them
clacked discs of hard wood or rattled beans in goobies: those who could
not make music, sang. The little, sharp-eared dogs sitting on their
haunches at the hut doors put back their heads, till they seemed all
throat, and sang likewise. The babies wakened from their sleep wailed
upon high notes. The men of the tribe sang or told stories: the women
and little girls dragged wood for the fire.

“I might be a thousand miles from anywhere,” Hi thought. “It may take me
days to get to Anselmo or anywhere else.”

The bonfire lit up the inside of his hut so as to shew the tin boxes
marked D and W. Since he could not sleep, his mind turned to these
boxes. “There is something queer about this man,” Hi said to himself.
“There is something odd about his relations with Wigmore. He said
something about these solitary prospectors being always bad eggs; well,
he doesn’t strike one as being a very lofty egg. He says he went through
Wigmore’s things and found no letters. I know that there were letters,
which he pitched on to the rubbish pile only a little while ago. He made
no effort to find Wigmore’s friends. It’s true that he says he sent in
an account of his death; yet he wears Wigmore’s belt and uses his rifle.
And then, to keep away from the poor chap while he was ill: good Lord.”