“I’d like to go along the side of it once,” Hi said. “I’d like to pace
it.”

“Pace away,” the man said. “It’s 120 yards, but you’ll want to know for
yourself, I suppose.”

“Have you measured it, then?”

“Yes.”

“Well, I’d like just to pace it and see it close to.”

He turned south from the man along the line of gods to the end of the
temple, which had not been cleared of creepers; the forest came to it
and cloaked it there. He turned here to look along the line of the
building. What struck him most was its silence, its blood-red colour
where the facings had fallen, and the fact that every inch of it bore
life of some sort. The man was watching him and playing with his rifle;
he was sitting on the stone trough which contained the tools, much as a
cat, having a mouse in a shelterless space, will drop him, withdraw a
few paces, look at the sky and lick her fur. Hi pretended to examine the
carving: he felt that the man must know what was passing in his mind. “I
must start pacing,” he thought.

He lifted his eyes towards the other end of the building. Dudley Wigmore
was standing there, facing him, with his right hand upon the building,
and with his left beckoning to him to come. It was very strange: he was
there and yet he was not there: he certainly saw him: then lost him:
then knew that someone sad was there who wanted him to go there. “Right,
I’ll go,” he thought; so he set out, pacing and counting.

When he came to the central door, abreast of the man, he was hailed.
“You needn’t go any further, chum. The other half is exactly the same,
another sixty yards.”

“I’m going to the end,” Hi said. “I believe your figures are wrong. I
believe you’re four yards out.”

“A pace won’t beat a yard-measure, chum.”

“I’ll talk in a minute,” Hi answered, still counting. “Just a minute, if
you don’t mind: I don’t want to lose count.”

He went on counting mechanically, thinking of a strangely different mark
of a vanished race not far from his home in Berkshire. Someone had told
him long before that that monument was 375 feet long. He counted his
pacing of this temple wondering if it would not prove to be the same,
and if it were the same why it should be. All the time he was terrified,
lest he should be shot in the back: the sweat was dripping from him.
Hope kept surging up in him that he might escape: despair kept urging
him to fling himself at the man’s feet and squeal for mercy. All sorts
of thoughts, of home and Carlotta and the things he wanted to do, seemed
to be protecting him. His life was from second to second; “eighty-one,”
he was alive, “eighty-two,” no bullet, “eighty-three,” not dead yet.
Dudley Wigmore was there: he could see his expression; very sad, yet
hopeful. Dudley Wigmore was not there; the end of the temple was there,
in a great corner-god, helmeted in the snake and eagle, whose mouth
crunched the leg of a man. By this time he was up to the hundred.
Suddenly Dudley Wigmore was there again, showing him the forest beyond
the end of the temple: the ground was sloping down there in a cover of
greyish thorn and greenish scrub, topped by what looked like ilex. He
went on pacing, repeating his count aloud: “a hundred and ten; a hundred
and fifteen.”

“Hey, chum,” the man called. “Hold on a minute. Wait for me a moment.”

Possibly he began to suspect suddenly: at any rate, he snapped-to the
breech of his rifle, rose, and began to walk steadily towards Hi.

“I’m just finishing,” Hi called. “I’m sure it must be more than you make
it. I make it 127 paces.” He turned to see where the man was, measured
his distance as about fifty yards, and then quietly, as though exploring
some ruin at home, turned the corner of the building.

The instant that he was out of sight, he darted across the end of the
temple into cover: he forced his way through the scrub, ducked well down
into it so as to be hidden, and ran downhill as he had never run. He had
gone perhaps seventy yards, head down and arms across eyes against the
thorns, when something hard took him across the leg, just below the
knee, so that he fell headlong violently into a thicket. It was a severe
fall, which knocked all the breath out of him. He came to himself with a
pain in his leg. “I’ve been shot,” he thought, “shot and hit in the
leg.”

Up above him on the plateau of the temple, he heard Letcombe-Bassett
call: “Chum. Heya, chum. Are you there, chum?” He heard him probe at
some of the near-by cover, seemingly with the barrel of his rifle. “I’ve
not been shot,” Hi thought, “I fell over a snag.” He dared not stir a
muscle, he hardly dared to breathe: Letcombe-Bassett seemed so near,
almost looking down upon him.