Shortly before dawn the next morning the train stopped at the
quarry-siding of Piedras Blancas, where the cooks of a squadron of
Meruel Reds were preparing broth and maté with water from the railway
tanks.

“There you are, lad,” the driver said, as he bade Hi good-bye. “Here’s a
wheen good law-and-order men to give yon marauding Manuel his paiks.
More power to ye, sons,” he cried, raising his voice. “And hang yon
idolatrous Deeck Turpin on a sour apple-tree.”

On leaving the train, Hi slipped through the crowd of quarry men and
soldiers, out of the siding to the road. Men and horses were coming from
their billets in the village. The cliff of the quarry loomed out white:
the stone dust made the village like moonlight or a flour mill.

Turning rapidly away downhill, he came to a grassy bank, where he
breakfasted on food which the girl had provided. As he ate, all that
expanse of the plain came into light and colour from the morning: he
could see.

There, far away, was Santa Barbara, glittering under a smudge of mist,
which hung over the violet of the sea. There, less than half way to the
city, was the hill to which he had been struggling all these days. That
heave of hill, topped by the church tower, one pinnacle of which was a
statue of Our Lady, was the hill of Anselmo, distant. . . . He could not
say how far distant it was, in that deceptive light: “Ten miles,” they
had said, but it might well be fifteen. “Oh, for a telescope or a pair
of glasses,” he said, “then I could see if the White army is there. That
is where it must be.”

As he turned towards Anselmo, he heard the sergeants of the Meruel Reds
calling the roll at the siding.

“Those fellows are here for no good,” he thought. “I’ll get along to Don
Manuel before I am stopped.”

The sun strode up out of the sea to give to the country a beauty,
unspeakable to one who had been for a week in the gloom of the forest.
To the joy of the light was added a beauty of overwhelming blossom, so
great that the soul of the earth seemed to be exulting in the sun.

“I shall reach Don Manuel after all,” he said. “I shall be actually with
him when we save Carlotta from the prison. And, oh, thank God, after
all, I have helped a little, for Rust has gotten through.”

After an hour and a half of walking, he was so far down into the plain
that Anselmo was almost merged in the tree clumps at its base. It seemed
to be less than two miles to the tower. The track led through clumps of
ilex into groves of timber, among which a brook ran. As he passed into
the cover of the ilex, he looked back at the land from which he had
come, at the foothills like an advanced guard and the mountains like an
army of kings. On the track by which he had come, he saw horsemen coming
in twos at a rather quick trot. “There are those soldiers who were at
the station,” he thought. “They are coming this way, too. Can they be
coming to join Don Manuel?”

Why should they not be? They were State troops, but in civil wars,
troops sometimes pass from the State to its rebels. “They can’t be
coming to attack him, anyway,” he thought, “for there aren’t a hundred
of them, and Don Manuel has thousands, so they said. If Don Manuel be in
the village there, they’ll meet their match.”

It came into his mind that if these men were coming to attack, or if Don
Manuel, being at Anselmo, came out to attack them, his own position,
between the two forces, would be perilous. He therefore hurried through
the cover, and pastures beyond to a copse of Turkey-oak which hid all
sight of Anselmo hill. As he went, he listened for some sound of Don
Manuel’s army, the noise of many hoofs, the call of bugles, the shouting
of orders, or even a shot from a picket. As he heard no such sounds he
concluded that the army was not there. “Perhaps it has gone on to Santa
Barbara,” he thought. “I may be just too late for it, through sleeping
too long yesterday.”

Then he thought, “It is more likely that they are all in Anselmo town on
the other side of the hill. And more likely still that they haven’t yet
reached Anselmo. They’ve been coming a long way on very bad going;
they’re bound to have crocked a lot of horses. That’s it, no doubt. I’ve
got here before them. In which case, good Lord, those Reds behind me
will probably take me prisoner. I’d better hide in this copse till
they’ve gone on or shown their hand.”

He had not gone far into the copse of Turkey-oak, when he suddenly found
that the further half of the copse was full of soldiers. His first
thought was, “Here are the Whites,” but a clearer view showed him that
they wore dusty reddish Meruel uniforms such as he had seen at the
station at dawn.

“Meruel Reds,” he thought, “I wish I knew which side they are on.”

To hesitate would have looked suspicious: he walked boldly on.