He pushed the door very gently till he could see that the room was a
kind of board-room, with shuttered windows. The table, from which the
chairs had been flung back, was littered with papers. A big picture,
partly out of its frame, was hanging askew on the wall to the right.
Nobody was to be seen; but the noise of the pressed papers came from
somewhere on the floor beyond the table.

Hi thought, “It is rats gnawing papers,” but on coming into the room he
saw that it was a dead man beset by myriads of cockroaches. The man’s
pockets had been turned inside out.

Hi suddenly whirled about in terror: someone was at his elbow.

He saw at once that he had no need to be terrified; it was the little
man who had opened the prison door. He had stolen up in his silent way.
He grinned at having scared Hi.

“Didn’t ’ear me, did yer, cocky?” he said. “Seen the stiff? They done
him in and gone through him; grizzled party; one of these Digos. We’d
better ’op it arter ’ere.”

Hi noticed that the man was carrying a long heavy ebony ruler which had
been a part of the office equipment. He had the feeling that this was
the man who had turned out the dead man’s pockets.

“Bleedin’ old beano goin’ on down the boulevard,” the man said; “kind of
a Brock’s benefit. If they come on ’ere agine, the goin’ won’t ’elp us;
we shan’t ’alf ’ave all right.”

He led the way out of the room and so away towards the front door, from
which fresh air was blowing into the house. On the top step a great
yellow pariah dog stood, longing to enter, but scared by their approach.
He snarled and slunk away from them as they came out into the open.
Moved by the thought that the dog might eat the body, Hi closed the door
behind him.

That part of the town was empty of life, except for the moths about the
globe of the electric light. The houses were shuttered and seemed to be
deserted; but Hi saw that a great disorder had raged there since he had
been thrust into the prison. Household gear of many kinds had been
dragged into the street and left. Far away down the hill was the glow of
the shell of the mansion, each window red as a furnace mouth. All the
inhabitants, as well as the lancers, seemed to be at the fire, except a
few who came thence quietly with sidelong glances, having pickings from
the wreck under their cloaks.

“I’m goin’ to ’op it arter ’ere,” the man said. “No ’ot potitoes in
mine. Coo lummy, what’s that?”

From the back of the city hall, from the direction of the prison yard,
there came a sound of song, mixed with the tolling of a cuckoo. Henery
Peach Kezia was lapping himself in soft Lydian airs:

O the cuckoo bird sings in the merry May morn.
Singing cuckoo, O cuckoo, how happy am I.
O cuckoo, O cuckoo, O cuckoo.
Cuckoo.

“It’s the drunkard,” Hi said.

“The stiff? You woke him?”

“Yes.”

Hi noticed that the man’s eyes were fixed upon him somewhat strangely.

“Which way you goin’, cocky?” he asked.

“Anselmo,” Hi said. “Do you know it?”

“I know it well,” the man said. “I don’t mind setting you there, or on
the way there.”

“That’s very kind of you,” Hi said. “But are you going that way?”

“Never you mind where I’m going,” the man said. “You’re a damn sight too
nosy.”

“No more nosy, as you call it, than you,” Hi answered. “I know the way
to Anselmo; if it’s out of your own way, I can find it myself. But we’d
better not go straight past the fire; we might be recognised.”

“Come along ’ere, cocky,” the man said. “If we go along this road a
piece, we can easy cut across later.”

They turned up a road which opened to the north not far from the city
hall. The houses near it were small adobe bungalows, with roofs of red
tiles. The stars in the heaven shone like lamps.

“I say, look at the stars,” Hi said.