Hi may have slept for half an hour, when he was wakened by the tinkle of
his bombilla falling on the floor. He roused up as a big, elderly
rogue-bull of a man, with bloodshot eyes and a heavy ruminating mouth,
which seemed to be chewing the cud of fifty different plans, came in, to
take charge of the gathering. Plainly all there looked up to him as a
leader. A flock of talkers surged up to him with a gabble of explanation
and persuasion: some of it very hot, Hi thought.

Presently, Hi found this man staring at him, though as yet without
comprehension. His eyes were fixed on Hi while his lower lip moved in
and out under the strain of thought. After a time, his bull-like brain
began to notice that Hi was a stranger in the camp: he turned to a man,
indicated Hi by a jerk of the head, and asked, “Who is that?” Then,
turning to Hi, whom of course he knew to be English, he jerked with his
head, saying, “Come here, you. What are you?”

Anton explained as Hi came forward; Hi heard the words “caballero
ingles”: then Anton, after asking his name, introduced him to Don Pablo
something of Meruel. Hi was refreshed by his sleep and eager to be
doing. He made up his mind that as these were Whites he would tell his
tale, so he did. He said that he was going on urgent White business to
Don Manuel at Encinitas; he asked for a horse that he might proceed.

When he had said his say, he knew that he had said something wrong. “I
believe they are Reds, after all,” he thought. “Now I’ve put my foot in
it.” Anton drew him aside a moment and explained: “All the Whites here
are anti-clerical, they hate Don Manuel like poison. You have said, ‘I
take nice Luteran message to the Pope.’” Anton seemed to think it very
funny, but Hi was appalled. “I’ve done for myself now,” he thought,
“they’ll probably jail me for a week.”

“Business with Don Manuel at Encinitas?” Don Pablo repeated. “And what
business?”

“To tell him that the Reds have put Señorita de Leyva into prison.”

This was news to the assembly, but on the whole pleasant news: the de
Leyvas were blamed for most of the troubles which had fallen on the
Whites.

“At least,” Don Pablo said, “you cannot reach Don Manuel from here.”

“I don’t want to,” Hi said. “I want to reach Anselmo from here, and from
there go on to Don Manuel.”

“Very pretty,” Don Pablo said. “There are telegraphs in Anselmo. You
could warn Santa Barbara of all that has been said here.”

“No, sir,” Hi said, “unfortunately, I know no Spanish, and have not
understood what has been said here: besides, I am not a spy.”

“You are the first to mention the word,” Don Pablo answered. “You are
here, we are here, the trouble exists, the telegraph exists, Santa
Barbara exists. I consider the situation.”

“Yes, sir,” Hi said, “but I have been only four nights in this land, I
know nothing of your politics.”

“How comes it then,” Don Pablo interrupted, “that you go at all upon
this errand? Why are you sent? Who sent you?”

“I must not tell you that, sir,” Hi answered, “but I was sent because
the need was great, and because an Englishman will not be suspected by
the Reds.”

“Very true,” Don Pablo answered, “but he may be suspected by the Whites.
See you,” he added, turning to address the assembly in Spanish, “this
boy may justly be suspected by us, when he comes from we know not where
and says that he wishes to reach Anselmo.”

As most of those there were like water, ready to flow in any direction
opened to it, as long as it were downhill, this turned the company
against Hi. They agreed that he might justly be suspected. Why should he
be there, they asked, if he wished to reach Anselmo? This was now war;
Anselmo was a place of the Reds undoubtedly; this was an English boy;
that he should be sent on a message was a farce. Undoubtedly he was a
spy or might be used as a spy. Hi did not know their words, but their
meanings were plain.

“You may be this or you may be that,” Don Pablo said, in English, “but
you cannot go to Anselmo.”

“But, sir, I must go.”

“What say you?”

“Sir, I must go.”

Don Pablo pretended to be deaf, he held one of his ears with his hand,
so as to catch the sound: the company tittered.