“We’ve not got any lake, alas,” Hi said, “but there is a little sort of
brook, or chalk-stream. It’s got plenty of water always, but it isn’t
broad enough for oars. So what I’ve always wanted to do is to make a
little engine to go in a boat. I don’t mean a steam-engine, but a hand
engine, so that one could have the exercise of rowing. A man would sit
on the thwart and turn a crank, or pull it to and fro, and that would
turn a paddle-wheel; only I don’t want the paddle-wheel to be at the
side, but either in front or let into the boat in a sort of well, so as
not to take up room. They all say that it couldn’t go, but I say it must
go.”

“Of course it would go,” Carlotta said.

“How could it go?” Rosa asked. “It could no more go than if you were to
stand in the boat and pull the boat-rope.”

“You’ve not even got enough mechanical sense, Rosa,” Hi said, “to make
you keep quiet when mechanics are being talked. If I’d had an old boat
or punt to experiment on, instead of a clothes-basket covered with
rick-cloth, I’d have proved that my thing would go.”

“If it would go, why hasn’t it been done? All the English are always
messing about in boats.”

“My engine is not for ordinary rivers, but for the brooks at home, or
even the canals, where you cannot always row, nor even paddle in
comfort.”

“There wasn’t much comfort in your clothes-basket, if I remember
rightly,” Rosa said.

“There isn’t much comfort in any good thing.”

“I should have thought religion,” Rosa said.

“You try it and see.”

“Manuel is very late,” Donna Emilia said. “We’re almost at an end here.
Do you think that he will come, ’Lotta?”

“Yes, I think I hear him.” A horse came at a quick canter up the drive.
Carlotta turned to Hi.

“After my marriage,” she said, “you must come out to stay with us, if
you will. There are rivers there not unlike what I should imagine yours
to be, and rolling hills of grass.”

“I would love that,” he said. He looked at her, and was at once shot
through with anguish to think that she was to be married to a man not
good enough for her. “He has frightened her,” he thought, “or got some
hold upon her, in the way these beasts do.”

Suddenly he realised that Don Manuel was there, kissing Donna Emilia’s
hand; he must have come in like a panther.

“I say,” he thought, “what a man.”

All manly strength, beauty and grace moved in that figure; but the face
was the extraordinary thing; it won Hi at once, partly by its power,
partly by its resemblance to the bust of the young Napoleon on the
landing at the Foliats. The man turned to Hi, with eyes most strange,
masterful, unbearable and bright as flames. “This is an extraordinary
man,” Hi thought. “Either splendid or very queer, perhaps both.” The
extraordinary man greeted him in English; then burst out with:

“Ah, I am glad to see you, Mr. Ridden. Your father sixteen years ago
sent me two English hunting saddles, because I rode his stallion, what?
And how is your father? And how do you like Santa Barbara? Ah, your
father; I was proud of those saddles; no gift have I liked so. You shall
come to me at Encinitas and ride and ride. That is the life, what?”

He took Hi’s hands in both his own, in his impulsive way, and looked
into his eyes, in a way that was both frightening and winning; it
entirely won Hi.

“You’re not a bit like your father,” he said, “not a little bit. Your
father likes being top-dog; sometimes bully, sometimes blarney. You want
to make things. I know your sort.

“Where are you staying?” he continued. “At the Santiago? That’s a vile
hole, the Santiago. Yet all our visitors form their first impressions
there. Whereabouts have they put you?”

“On the third floor,” Hi said, “Room 67.”

“Looking out on the back, what? Well, looking out on the front wouldn’t
have been much more cheerful. The palace, the Santiago and the
cathedral. I’d like to raze them all three and start afresh.

“By the way, about your Santiago. I am a night bird. I pass the back of
that hotel at night at two in the morning. You can get in at the back
through the cellar-grating. The negro waiters run a gambling hell there;
fan-tan, what? They also do a private trade in the hotel liquor. And now
forgive me everybody for being so late.”