“Well, if they won’t answer, I’ll see if I can go in,” he said. He
lifted the latch by plucking the plaited leather bobbin: the door was
not locked, it opened before him into a long lit corridor or hall where
an English clock was ticking. As he opened the door, the wind blowing in
shook the pictures on the wall: they swayed and clacked for an instant,
then steadied. There were lighted rooms opening from each side of the
corridor, but no sound of any living being.

“Hullo, you inside here,” Hi called. “I am a friend. Is anyone there?
Señor Elena. Señor George, Señor William. Hey, hey, heya. Is anyone here
at all?”

His voice rang along the corridor and died away: no one was there. “Very
well, I’ll go in,” Hi said. He stepped in, and closed the door against
the wind. As he did so a letter and envelope, which had been lying on
the edge of a table near him, fell to the stone flags with a clatter. He
replaced them on the table; then paused to look about him.

He had heard that men of the great ranches lived like princes. The hall
in which he stood was bare, big and white, lit by electric lights. There
were two stiff black chairs, two black pictures of yellow nymphs, a
table heaped with silver horse-trappings, and the English grandfather’s
clock, gravely telling the time. He walked up to the clock and read the
words on the dial:

Edward Hendred.
1807
Abingdon.

These two little things of old Berkshire met thus in this strange house
so many miles from Thames and Down. “Hendred of Abingdon,” he repeated.
“There may be a Berkshire man here who may know father.” He glanced at
the pictures of the yellow nymphs in their clothes blown out in the
grand manner. “Religious pictures,” he thought and glanced away. The
house was so still that he hardly dared to go further.

“What can have happened?” he asked. “Some fight or some show or what?”

He walked to the nearest door, on his left. The door was ajar, shewing a
lit room: he knocked at the door, had no answer, and therefore looked
in. It was a big, long room, in use as the messroom of the household,
for whom thirty places had been laid on the table. Food in abundance had
been set there for a meal, which had been begun. Baskets of small Meruel
loaves were on a sideboard near the door: he felt these by accident as
he put out his hand: the under loaves were still warm from the oven.
There was warmth in the vast silver cazuela tureen, which stood, more
than half empty at the head of the table. The table was littered with
the mess of the meal: broken loaves, bowls which had been used for
cazuela, halves of oranges, skins of bananas, and the bones of big birds
like turkeys. Yet from the look of the plates Hi felt that the meal had
never been finished: something had interrupted it before they had
reached the coffee and cigarettes. Somebody with some news had come
there soon after they were half way through, then chairs had been thrust
back and food left, half eaten and the eaters and talkers had gone. Why
had they gone, and where? Hi did not like the feeling of this house.

He went again to the hall and cried: “Is there anybody here?” But there
was no answer. “There must be someone somewhere in all this barrack,” he
said. “Surely in the kitchen or outhouses there will be a woman or a
negro or a peon. There must be at least a caretaker or night-watchman.
The kitchens will be along the corridor somewhere at the back.”

He went down the corridor, where he found the kitchen. It was a vast
room, bare, clean, and empty of people. The fire, which had done the
work of cooking, had been allowed to die down; but the castle-kettle,
once full of water for coffee and the washing-up of the dishes, was
still boiling and half full. A black cat with its paw round its face was
curled up asleep on a mat on a chair. “I’m glad that there is something
alive here,” he said.

Doors opened from the kitchen into outhouses, sculleries and larders: Hi
felt a dread of looking into these rooms, but he overcame it: no one was
there.

“Well,” he said, “if there’s no one to ask, I will make a mash for my
poor horse. No one could object to that.”

He took one of the big round-up stew cauldrons which lay against a wall.
In this he made a hot mash of bread for his horse, adding some salt. He
carried it out to the horse, who seemed glad of the warm food for a few
instants; but it was not all that he had hoped; in a few instants his
muzzle dropped from it. “Poor old boy,” Hi said, “I wish I knew what I
could give you, that you would like.”

He lingered by the horse for a few minutes, to pull his ears, and rub
him down. The breeze which had set in struck cold, so Hi moved the horse
to a more sheltered place behind the immense rain vats a few yards from
the tethering posts. He had hoped that somebody would come there while
he was outside with the horse, but there came neither sight nor sound of
anybody.