“Come along,” Hi said, “wake up. Come on out of this.”

“What’s that?” the man said.

“Wake up, man,” Hi said, “we’ve got the door open; we can get away.”

The man sat up, pulled out a sheath-knife, spat, and said:

“I’ll cut your guts out.”

“Never mind my guts,” Hi said, “they’ll keep; but we may be spotted, if
we don’t hurry.”

“Garrrr,” the man screamed, “Garrrr and guts. See? Garrrr and guts.
Harrar.” He rose upon his feet, with a brandish of his knife. “Come on
the lot of you,” he yelled, “you don’t daunt me. I’m Henery Peach Kezia
and my blood’s vitriol. I’ll seal you for your tombstone. Harrar you
planets, I’ll put some of your lights out, once I get a hold of you.”
Here he lifted up his voice into a yell.

“Ayayayayay,” he yelled, “I’m the frog who would a-wooing go. See me
hop.”

“Hop out of the door,” Hi said. He held the door so that the frog might
hop. He was frightened not only of the madman, but of his noise, which
might bring the guards.

“Where’s the door?” the man asked.

“Here.”

“Where’s here?” the man asked. “How am I to know where _here_ is?”

“Are you blind?” Hi asked. “I didn’t know you were blind.”

“I been blind since I was a poor little orphan child,” the man said. “I
only smell things. There’s a smell of roses here, or maybe it’s
lavender. You guide me to the door, my dear young Bible friend. Just
reach me your hand and the blessings of the poor blind man will follow
you. Oh, Heaven bless you, my sweet young gentleman angel, Heaven will
bless you for this.”

Hi had taken the man by the left arm, while he kept the door open with
his body. The man came unsteadily through the opening into the yard.

“There,” he said, “there.” He drew a deep breath, suddenly wheeled upon
Hi, stabbed at him with his knife, and screamed:

“And now I’ll cut your guts out, like I said.”

Hi had half expected something of the kind. By a twist of his body he
shook himself clear, so that the door, at once swinging-to, struck
Henery Peach Kezia and made him miss his stab.

“Don’t you think to dodge me like that, when my blood’s up,” Kezia said,
“you young swine. I’ll cut you double for that. I’ll cut you crossways,
so’s your own mother will deny you.” He began to laugh with a deep down,
joyless chuckle, which made Hi’s blood run cold. He was not very steady
on his feet, but he had a horrid danger about him, because of his
sideways lurches. Hi dodged him in his rush, but not by much, for they
were on the concrete slopes of the yard and Hi wore English
walking-shoes, the man stockings. It was as bright as bright moonlight
from the fire.

“Now, then,” Kezia said. “Now we’ll see. Some would have took pity on
you; but not me. Do you see jouncer? This knife’s jouncer. And as soon
as I’ve breathed on the blade he’s going into you.”

He panted on to the blade like a hound getting breath, then he made a
sudden dart, missed by about a foot, and then followed with dreadful
speed and certainty round and round the yard. The fire, wherever it was,
burned up with a brighter blaze to light him. Hi aimed to reach the door
into the municipal building, but the man was too close behind him for
him to try to open it. He slipped on the concrete, caught one of the
pillars which held the pent-house roof, and swung round it with such
force that he struck Kezia from behind. The rush and excitement seemed
to steady Kezia.

“Ha,” he said, “ain’t this fun? Ain’t this nice hide and seek? And I’ll
bleed you into veal in the drain; white meat; eightpence a pound, prime
cuts.”

Here there came a crash. Perhaps the brightness of the fire had been fed
for the past twenty minutes by the timbers and rafters of the roof.
These now suddenly gave way and launched the blaze into the pit of the
wreck; the glare of the burning died at once from about them. Hi was in
the dark, poised behind a pillar, trying to see the drunkard, who was
near the desired door. There was silence for about thirty seconds, each
was trying to see the other; at last the drunkard spoke.