“It is strange,” Hi said. “Whenever I come into this hut I have the
feeling that there is somebody here. It is the way that this
hammock-post catches the light.”

The sun was now fast dropping behind Melchior, so that it lit up the end
of the hut where the rubbish had been thrown. Something sparkled on the
floor beyond the rubbish. Hi picked it up. It was a little gold locket
clipped to a rusty steel watch-chain. After wiping the locket, he opened
it, with some trouble. It contained a tiny photograph, not so big as his
thumbnail, of a young woman’s face. She was a handsome young woman, of
the hawk brunette type.

“I suppose that this is his girl,” Hi thought, closing the locket. “He
must have dropped this somehow in the dark; he’ll be glad to have it
again.”

He dropped the locket on to one of the wooden stools, so that he might
have it at hand when D. W. returned; then he sat in his hammock,
thinking of Carlotta. “Early to-morrow,” he thought. “Early to-morrow,
whatever happens, I shall get away from here. Even now, with luck, I
might not be too late. But I simply must not be too late. I must be in
time.”

As the light suddenly passed from the world at the dropping of the sun
behind Melchior, he wondered whether after all he would be in time. It
was hard to say what might have happened under a madman like Don Lopez.
Supposing that the worst had happened? Supposing that he were not in
time?

He was weary from the hardships of the journey, all his body was crying
out for rest. He edged himself into his hammock, for the comfort of
lying prone, and there fell asleep. He slept heavily, having still some
arrears to make up, and yet, for all its soundness, his sleep was
troubled with the sense that all was not well. Gradually, as his sleep
weakened, he began to feel that there was an unhappiness, or something
worse, close to him: someone in distress was there. “Ah,” he answered in
his sleep, “it is you, Carlotta. All right, I’ll do my best to warn him
and bring him. I’ll do my best, though I do seem to have muddled
things.” Then, as his sleep weakened still more, he knew that it was not
Carlotta who was there, but a man who had been there before.

“Yes,” he said, in his sleep, “there was a man in the hut this
afternoon: so he is here again; well, what can I do for him? Where are
you? Let’s have a look at you.”

He struggled out of his sleep to a knowledge of the waking world, which
came upon him slowly, as another world, that had taken its place, moved
away in fiery mist. He saw, or thought that he saw, the man standing
near the hut entrance, looking at him, with sad eyes. “All right,” Hi
cried.

“Is it supper-time? I’ve been asleep, but I’m awake. I’ll be up in one
moment.” As he blinked and sat up, the figure faded away into the
darkness behind it, which was now a blackness of leaves moving against
stars. “It was only a dream, after all,” Hi said. “But it is odd how
there always seems to be a man here. I suppose one gets to imagine these
things.”

He came back fully to the world of the village, where now lamps and
fires were burning, women singing and the tom-tom drumming. “I’ll see if
D. W. has come back,” he said.

He was prevented by the entrance of Chug-chug, who came to ask him by
signs to come to the other hut. “D. W. is back, then,” he thought. “Now
for it.”

He followed Chug-chug to the other hut, which was lit by three lamps. A
trestle-table had been rigged up, food was set upon it. The man sat on
his camp-chair at the table-head, facing Hi. He had a much worn
cartridge belt slung over his shoulder: one of the pouches of it was
stamped D. W. He had been cleaning a light sporting rifle with a
pull-through and an oily feather: he now held the rifle across his
knees, and kept opening the breech and snapping it to. Hi could see him
more clearly than had been possible to him the night before. In the
main, he felt his impression confirmed, that he did not like the man:
there was more force in him than wisdom or goodness.

“You’d better have some chow, chum,” the man said.

The chow was the oily, peppery meat stew, served with cassava bread, of
which Hi had already eaten twice that day.

“Find yourself a pew there,” the man said. He was not a gracious host:
he seemed to resent Hi’s presence there, yet this was a kind of
invitation from him to sit down and dine. Hi pulled a stool to the table
and sat down.

“I suppose I’d better introduce myself,” the man said, “like the ladies
do at these receptions. Did you ever hear of Brocket Letcombe-Bassett,
the hundred yards Blue?”