“It’s a bit unsettled out of doors, sir. We could slip into the church
for a bit.”

“Let us go there, then.”

’Zeke said something with gestures to Isabella, who seemed suspicious
and not well pleased. She questioned ’Zeke several times before she let
them out. She then followed him to the stair-head with questions, which
’Zeke put from him with gestures and ejaculations. She was not satisfied
with these replies, because she went back to the room, growling.
Glancing upwards as he entered the Close, Hi saw her head and shoulders
craned from the window to see where they were going.

In the almost complete darkness of the church, Hi told ’Zeke what was
wanted.

“I been to ’Carnacion,” he said. “It was there I went with my bull,
where the rabbits were. It was this Don Manuel owned my bull; only I
didn’t go so much by land, as by sea, to Port ’Toche. I know the way to
Anselmo; it’s by the Foxes Inn. And I know the Mr. Elenas at Anselmo,
Mr. George and Mr. William, only they don’t pronounce it like that. They
breed horses, the Mr. Elenas.

“I did a job of work for the Misters Elenas one time. You see, Mr.
Highworth, they got a stallion one time; my word, he were a horse, only
he wasn’t what we would call a stallion, you understand, being for
draught. Not a shire horse, neither, but one of they French sort,
really. ‘Whicker,’ he went, and ‘Whicker,’ he went, oh, it was a treat
to hear him: down he would go and up he come; and all in play, really:
only he hate his grooms, Mr. Highworth, one after the other. It was all
in play, really, only they didn’t understand him, that was what it was,
really. You know he couldn’t abide velvet, this velvet stuff the grooms
wear. You’ve heard of the red rag to a bull? Well, it was the same with
him, only velvet. That was all it was. When I showed ’em, they left off
this velvet, then he didn’t eat them, except, maybe, now and then a
pinch and that. And is that all I’m to say to the Misters Elenas and to
Mr. Manuel, just _Dorothea_, and he’s to come at once?”

“Yes, that’s all. How soon could you reach Anselmo?”

“Three hours and that. But I’ll get a horse out along the road, maybe.”

“It’s a long way to Encarnacion,” Hi said.

“I like a bit of sport, when I get a horse like these country ones
that’s got meat on the ribs.”

“You’ll hurry all you can, won’t you? People’s lives depend on it.”

“Dammy, Mr. Highworth, I’ll go like your old grandfather, and like what
the old gentleman, old Mr. Ridden done.”

“Thank you.”

“I suppose it’s all right, Master Highworth?”

“Yes, it’s all right.”

“These foreigners aren’t like us, most of the time. They got this
devil-worship and all sorts. Now a man likes to know what’s what and
that. That’s only fair. But it’s these yellow devils makes them not go
above board. They brought in the yellows to rule the whites; it’s that
causes all the trouble.”

“That’s the cause of the trouble.”

“Well, I’ll do my best, Mr. Highworth.”

“Thank you. I can’t thank you enough.”

“Nothing I like better, really, than a bit of sport. I was having
difficulty, if you understand me, Master Highworth; but then first I met
you and now comes this other job. I never had so much luck at one time
before, except that once at the races; and then I was cheated of it.”

Hi gave him some money for expenses, thanked him and urged him to go.

“Not by the door we came in by, Mr. Highworth,” he said. “That would
never do. Them that see you go in may watch for you out.”

They were near the High Altar as he spoke. The door by which they had
entered the church was opened: someone crept into the church. Hi saw the
snub-nosed profile of Isabella motionless for an instant, while she
sought in the darkness for her prey. ’Zeke on the instant plucked him
through a curtain to a swing-door and thence to a lane.

“We dodge the Close this way,” he said, “and I’ll be back in a week or a
bit better. And that will be all right, Mr. Highworth; and I thank you,
sir, I’m sure, very kindly. And I wish you a happy Christmas, sir,
though I know it’s a long time to wait.”