“A friend.”

“Ah,” said the man, “what’s your friend’s name? I only ask because I
know La Boca, and it might be a question of putting you ashore either to
the north or to the south.”

“He will be at the inn,” Hi said.

“Which inn?” the man said.

“Is there more than one?” Hi asked.

“Is your friend an Englishman? What’s his name?”

“Excuse me,” Hi said, “but can you get me to La Boca?”

“Let me see,” the man said, “did you mention your name and your friend’s
name?”

“Jones,” Hi said in desperation.

“Well, Mr. Jones,” the man said, “if you’ll step along with me, I’ll see
if that boat’s gone that was here. Is it your brother that you’re going
to see in La Boca?”

“No.”

“Oh, I see. Not a brother, only a friend. I don’t remember the name of
Jones in La Boca. What’s he doing there?”

“He’s only just gone there,” Hi said.

“Oh, a newcomer, like yourself. Well, this is the La Boca boat.”

He spoke to the master of the boat, who was putting what is called a
fish in the yard of his sail.

“That man will take you to La Boca,” the man said. “He’s just going to
start. If you had come to me on your way, I could have sent you off in
one of the vegetable boats hours ago. Don’t give him more than two
pesetas. By the way, where will you be staying at La Boca, Mr. Jones? If
you or your friend should want any of these earthenware jars, I am in a
position to get them as cheap as anybody. What initial did you say yours
was?”

“H,” Hi said.

“And your friend’s?”

“R,” Hi answered.

“Mr. H. and Mr. R. Jones,” the man said. “Where are you stopping, did
you say? Because I can get you nice rooms in a boarding-house, which
would be cheaper for you than any hotel.”

Here the boatman invited Hi into the boat.

“Where are you stopping?” the man called. “Where did you say you were
stopping? I should like to call round in the evening and see you, if
you’re not doing anything. They always say that Englishmen ought to
stick together.”

Hi was about to answer, but the boom gybed at that instant and knocked
his hat into the well. The boat had shoved off.

“Inquisitive beast,” Hi thought. “I never knew a man ask questions like
that before. I shouldn’t wonder if he’s a detective put there to stop
passengers leaving the city. If that’s the case, I’ll very likely be
stopped at La Boca. If that devil telegraphs, I shall very likely be met
at the pier and shadowed. However, for the moment I am off. That’s the
main thing. But I’ve wasted simply hours.”

His boat passed close beside Giordano. He was bent over his carpentry in
deep attention, putting a whipping over the join.

“He doesn’t mean to start for another hour,” Hi thought. “I am glad I
tried to find someone starting sooner.”

The master of the boat, Chigo, the boatman, and Luigi, the boy, ran up
their new striped sails, so that the boat leaned down and sheered the
water. Then they brought out bread, onions, wine and water and some
little transparent fish, which were meant to be eaten raw. They invited
Hi to their feast and all breakfasted together. After breakfast, while
the boat was still moving swiftly to the south, Hi amused himself by
looking into the shallow water at the fish and the weeds of all the
colours of the rainbow. Presently something, which seemed like a piece
of the bottom of the bay, blundered up alongside, turned over and
seethed out of the water into a whiteish blunt thing, which had a kind
of cat’s mouth that clicked. The click missed by at least two feet, as
the thing did not aim very well. It blundered over, rubbed against the
side of the boat with a slow rasping movement and disappeared.