There rose in his mind suddenly the image of the forest fever, as a grey
thing without a head, a thing like a worm, which said: “It is just after
the rains now: very likely I have put a touch upon you, so that people
will leave you in a hut till you are dead. It is a very catching
complaint, the forest fever.”

“Very likely,” he said, “very likely I have caught the fever: in which
case they’ll never know at home what became of me: no one will ever
know, except the Indians who will bury me here.”

“I’m going to look in those boxes,” he said, turning out of his hammock.
“Perhaps there is some map or chart, if Wigmore was a prospector. With a
map I might be able to find out where I am and how to get away from
here.”

He pulled out the nearer of the two tin boxes from its covering of
creeper. It felt and proved to be empty save for two small studs and a
trouser button. He tipped the box on its side, to make sure that there
was no label or address. “No further help there,” he said. “Now for the
other.”

The second box had been used to block a hole which the dogs had routed
in the hut wall. It had been weighted inside with a biggish hewn stone,
so that the dogs should not thrust it aside. Beside the stone were some
scraps of rubbish which Hi brought out to the light to examine. The
things were:

A buckle of a strap.

Two halves of a lead pencil which had fallen apart.

The lead of the pencil.

A mouldy piece of knotted ribbon, which looked as if it had once gone
round a packet of letters.

Two sodden letters in envelopes, both post-marked Shepton Mallet, the
one on February 1st, the other February 8th, 1886, and addressed,
“Dudley Wigmore, Esq., c/o The United Sugar Company, Santa Barbara.” One
of these letters was signed “from mother”: the other was from “your
loving May.”

Last of all was a much-weathered, ant-eaten pocket-book, sodden with
damp and so clutched together by a rubber band as to be liker a piece of
mouldy wood than a book.

“This is queer,” Hi said. “These letters have been opened and carried
about in a man’s pocket. They are dated only about thirteen months ago.
Yet that fellow said that Wigmore died a couple of years ago.” Either
Wigmore was alive a year ago, or that tick opened his letters a year
after he was dead. It isn’t likely that that fellow could have made a
mistake about Wigmore’s death. He said ‘a couple of years.’ One could
hardly go wrong on a point of that sort. One would remember when the
only white man within twenty miles died.

“Then that fellow said, that Wigmore was a prospector, a pleasure-miner,
and drank like a fish. Now it’s odd that there are none of the
prospector’s things here: no pans and sieves for washing, no scales nor
any stuff for making assays. Then if he drank like a fish, it is odd
that there are no bottles left. It wouldn’t have been easy to drink like
a fish out here; but if he drank at all he drank from bottles, and there
are no bottles nor parts of bottles. Now father said that any forest
Indian would work for a week for a bottle, which is a very valuable
possession here. They make bottles into lamps, canteens, jewels, knives,
scrapers and arrow-heads. There isn’t a trace of a bottle in this
settlement, that I can see. So probably Wigmore didn’t drink like a
fish. Probably also he wasn’t a prospector. Probably also he didn’t die
a couple of years ago, but a year at most. This man has been lying about
him. If he lied about his life, probably he has lied about his death.
There has been a Wigmore here; that Wigmore is probably dead. The man
who knows about his death has his gun and cartridges, and perhaps also
his gold-claim and his mining things. The man who lies about him has
profited by his disappearance. Supposing this man, whoever he is, this
hundred yards Blue man, should have murdered Wigmore, in order to take
his things?

“Who is this hundred yards Blue man? I’ll bet that name isn’t his real
name, but a false name given to make me think that he is related to
decent people. He is not a gentleman nor a man of ordinary decent
feeling: he is a tick or criminal. I wouldn’t be a bit surprised if he
has murdered Wigmore. If he thinks that I think that, he’ll probably
murder me. I don’t think he’d think twice about murdering a chap. I’ll
have to be jolly careful to-morrow. But, first, I’ll look at this book,
to see if it will help at all.”

The book proved to be little better than pulp. It had been at one time a
neat oblong pocket-book with a cover of black leather: now the dye in
the cover and the endpapers had soaked through into the leaves, which
were stuck together and stained like crushed blackberries. In the centre
were two leaves which contained some legible jottings in pencil in a
neat handwriting. They were seemingly columns of names. Closer
examination shewed Hi that they were lists of words in different
tongues. The left hand columns contained English words, the other
columns were the Indian words in different dialects.