Let me forestall any sympathy I may have aroused for myself. I am not
the hero of this story. There is a heroine, but no hero; for neither
the mild-natured Captain Merwin, half hypnotized by the dashing Mr.
Butterell into a surrender of his principles, Mr. Butterell, actuated
by the cheapest motives of vanity and self-love, nor myself, embittered
by disappointment, jealousy, and other unworthy emotions--none of us,
I say, acted a heroic part from beginning to end. Mr. Butterell took
his hand away from my face, as I had demanded; but it became a fist and
came back.

I parried the blow and struck back at his face; but it was like
parrying a battering ram and striking a stone wall. It was the only
blow I struck in that fight, if fight it may be called. He was larger,
heavier, and quicker than myself, and soon I felt his fist crashing
between my eyes, and my world went out in a blinding flash of light. I
came to in a few moments, I think, and found myself in the lee scuppers
with Mabel bending over me, her face all sympathy and kindliness. I
could barely see it between my closing eyelids; but could also see
Mr. Butterell standing up to windward with Captain Merwin, laughingly
explaining his code of ethics. "Yes, sir," he was saying. "I consider
that there's less difference between your second mate and the dubs I
kicked forward than between myself and a captain. That goes, Captain
Merwin, or you can put me aboard the first inbound ship!"

I struggled to my feet and, pushing past Mabel, approached the two as
the captain answered, "Yes, yes, Mr. Butterell, I understand; but I am
sorry, very sorry. I had hoped--I hope there will be no more fighting."

"No, sir," I broke in rather insanely, "there'll be no more fighting
with fists, I promise you that. But let me say to you, sir," I faced
Mr. Butterell, "that there's less difference between you and a dead
man than there is between you and a captain. If you ever strike me
again, I'll kill you, if I have to knife you through your window while
you are asleep."

Then, as though it were a deathknell, four bells struck at the wheel.

I spoke loudly in my rage, and pain, and blindness--for I could not see
them now--and I know my words rang through the ship from end to end,
and must have been heard by the listening crew, for a few responsive
whoops came from forward. But also came a shivery "Oh, oh!" from Mabel,
and stern words from the captain.

"Tut, tut, Mr. Rogers!" he said. "That will do! You are setting a bad
example to the men. Go to your room, bathe your eyes, and get your
supper. If you cannot stand watch at eight bells, I will stand watch
for you; but no more of this talk of killing! I did not think it of
you!"

And, to the sound of Mr. Butterell's soft, derisive chuckling, he half
led, half pushed me into the companion to my room on the starboard side
of the passage. With the exception of the log desk in the mate's room,
the two apartments were similar, each with a window looking out on the
main deck, and another, over the berth opening into the alley. I could
not eat, and as I crawled blindly into the berth, like a bad boy sent
supperless to bed, and opened the window to let air in on my fevered
face, I could not help thinking how easy it would be to carry out my
threat. In imagination I did so; but I was not yet sane.

While few men pass through life without at least one sound thrashing
from schoolmate or fellow man, still fewer, I think, receive that
thrashing under such peculiarly humiliating conditions as those
attending mine, and fewer yet, at my age, know that vengeance,
properly disregarded, will take care of itself. So I fumed through
the dog-watch, listening to the hateful sound of the mate's voice--now
chatting with Mabel, again raised in a roaring behest to the men--and
to the still more hateful sound of Mabel's musical laughter at his
sallies, until seven bells, when he called the men to the pumps,
which, whether the ship leaks or not, are manned at this time of day.
Then the captain came with the steward, prescribed remedies from the
medicine chest, and gave me such fatherly, grieved, and reprehensive
admonishment as to irritate me past all silence and endurance.

"Look out, sir," I said at last, "that you don't get yours!"

"What do you mean, sir?" he asked sternly as he drew back from me. "Do
you threaten me, Mr. Rogers?"

"No, captain, I do not," I answered. "I mean that he has practically
threatened you. I heard him claim equality with you in your presence,
after picking this quarrel with me and then likening me to the
stowaways. I am your second mate. He will treat you the same, sir, when
it suits him."

"Nonsense, young man!"

"No nonsense about it, captain!" I raved. "There'll be trouble aboard
this ship yet, trouble that'll be none o' my making. Why didn't you
ship a Bengal tiger and be done with it? You could ha' got one cheaper
than a mate's pay for the passage."