"I think not," I said. "He is very properly scared and subdued, and
knows that I will be watching him."

There was little further intercourse between George Morton and myself.
He appeared on deck occasionally, but usually in my watch below, and
when we met he would turn his head away, much to the chagrin of the
captain, who had no knowledge of conditions. He was pale, emaciated,
and fidgety in his manner, evidently a very sick man, and beyond
all thought of punishment; but I felt no regret at the loss of my
vengeance--I had won something better, and was content.

His attitude toward his sister, however, was one of doglike devotion
and apology, while hers was one of toleration and contempt. He would
hasten to meet her at the companion, to help her to a seat, to bring
rugs or books, satisfied if she murmured a mere word of thanks. Then he
would banish himself and look at her hungrily, waiting to be called.
There is no doubt that, up to the limits of his narrow soul, he loved
his sister; but it was a love based upon possession--the property
instinct, the love of a dog for a cached bone, a bird for its perch, a
cat for those who have housed and fed her. He had lost something, and
wanted it back; and as it was lost forever I feared for that other love
that was part of his being--his love of fire.

I could not watch him when asleep, nor depute the task to others--all
I could do was to overhaul the deck and force pumps, make up an extra
supply of draw-buckets, and examine all approaches to the inflammable
jute in the hold. In that last I found nothing to alarm me. It could
not be reached except through the hatches, which were all battened
down. And it was all in the lower hold; on top of the ballast tiers of
sugar, and above it, stowed in the 'tween deck, was the rest of the
sugar. He could not set fire to the sugar, even if he reached it.

Yet in the hot, blistering heat of the Indian Ocean, when we had lain
for days in a calm that was harder on our nerves than a hurricane,
smoke filtered up through the seams in the cabin flooring--smoke with
the pungent odor of burning jute; and the first man to notice it was
George Morton.

"Done it, by heavens!" I growled, as I turned out in answer to the
captain's quiet call.

There was a consultation in the cabin of the after-guard, to which
were called the cook and steward, carpenter and sailmaker, and the two
boatswains from the forecastles. All of these reported the smell of
smoke in the compartments of the forward house, and the boatswain said
that it was plainly noticeable at the fore and main hatches. Grace
and her brother were listening; in Grace's face were uncertainty and
apprehension, in her brother's, as he darted furtive glances at me, the
deadly fear of immediate denunciation; but whether there was guilt or
not I could not determine.

No one could guess how the fire had started, and only two points were
elucidated from the discussion, both bearing upon the captain's opinion
that nothing could be done at present but to keep the hatches on and
smother it. The carpenter ventured the opinion that the fire could not
be smothered. "For the ship is a sieve, captain," he said. "You know I
told you so in Hongkong, and wanted you to calk her, topsides, deck,
and all. There's millions of little holes to let the air in."

"And even so," added Morton, "the interstices between the barrels of
sugar hold air that can be drawn upon."

"Right," said the captain impatiently, and a little sadly. "But it's
too late to calk every seam in this ship, and if it don't smother out,
and we can't make port, this ship is gone. All we can do is wait, for
if we open hatches and jettison sugar to get at it, we'll only give it
more draft."

So, we waited, but while waiting, headed the ship toward Calcutta, if
not to save our lives, at least to meet with some craft that could
deluge our jute with water--a large steamer, with power pumps and hose.
But nothing came our way, and the days and weeks went on, with the
deadening calm still engulfing us, and the deck growing hotter each
hour. Soon the smoke became visible, curling up in countless little
spirals, where the minute holes gave it egress.

Morton faced me one day, his eyes wide open and his face twitching. "I
know what you think," he stammered. "You think I set fire to the cargo.
But I swear by all I reverence that I did not. My sister believes in
me."

"Mr. Morton," I answered, steadily as I could, for I never was my real
self in his presence, "perhaps you did not. But all that makes me
think so is my utter inability to comprehend how you could do it. A man
who will fire a seminary will fire a ship at sea."

He slunk away from me, so pitiable and wretched an object that
immediately I was sorry for my words. After that I spoke kindly to him
whenever it was necessary to speak at all.