"What happened?" asked the latter. "Well, never mind what happened. She
has fallen down the stairs and wounded herself with her scissors. Carry
her aft. We must stop this effusion of blood. Heavens"--he looked at
the deck--"she has bled a quart already. Aft with her quickly."

Bill carried the limp and bleeding form back to the cabin, and, having
laid it gently on the bed in her stateroom, was moved to go. He was
sailing master; the agonized father was there, the doctor, a member
of the family and acting the part; the doctor's wife, a motherly and
practical old lady, and a group of quiet, gentlemanly, and questioning
rivals, whom Bill had no love for and who invited their own destruction
by the looks they gave him. Bill went to the bridge, called his mate,
then, capturing the steward on his way forward to the galley, ordered
him to report, as he valued his life, on the condition of the sick
girl. The steward promised, and Bill waited on the bridge.

The steward went aft, and Bill watched him come up on the run and race
forward. Bill again cleared the bridge stairs at a jump, and met him.

"Dying, captain," gasped the steward. "Dying from loss of blood."

Bill went aft--he never remembered whether he walked or ran--and bolted
down the stairs, shoving aside the small Arsdale, the big Muggins, the
athletic Parsons, and even the gentlemanly Elkins, all of them white
in the face, as they hovered near the stateroom door, and burst into
the room, where the grief-stricken father, the anxious doctor, and the
weeping Mrs. Calkins hovered over the quiet, unconscious form on the
bed. The rivals followed him in, but did not attempt to get between him
and the girl. The doctor looked around at them, while Bill leaned over
and raised the girl's head in the palm of his hand. He choked, but did
not speak.

"Nothing but transfusion of blood will save her," said Doctor Calkins.
"Who will volunteer?"

"I will," stuttered young Arsdale.

"You won't do, young man," said the doctor, coldly. "You're not big
enough, and need all the blood you have for yourself."

"Then I'm the man," said Muggins, the author. "Heavens, what an
experience! What a story I can make of it!"

"You won't do, sir," repeated the doctor to this aspirant. "Your blood
is impregnated with alcohol, and Lord knows what. I would as soon
inoculate her with vitriol." Mr. Muggins left the room.

Mr. Pearson drew back, very pale in the face, evidently impressed with
the thought that he was expected to offer himself to the sacrifice; but
no one seemed to notice, and Mr. Elkins, the editor, faced the doctor.

"I have mentioned to the captain," he said, "my wish to do something,
be something, make something, before I die. I am a healthy man, Doctor
Calkins, and I offer myself."

The doctor looked him over approvingly.

"It will take a full quart of your blood. You may not survive."

"Take it," said Elkins firmly. "I will run the chance."

Bill looked up, dazed and shaking. He had dimly recognized the drift of
the talk, but now grasped the fact in its entirety that a man--another
than himself--was ready to die for this girl that he loved. It was
preposterous, unthinkable, and impossible. He laid the girl's head back
on the pillow, and motioned Mr. Elkins out of the room. Mr. Elkins went
quickly and quietly. There was that in Bill's face that induced him to
obey the gesture.

Pearson and Arsdale followed as quickly, stumbling somewhat in their
haste, and even the stern old father drew away from Bill.

"Does she need my blood?" asked Bill grimly. "I've plenty to spare.
Take it all."

"You are needed to command this boat," said the doctor.

"I am not. My two mates can navigate. Get ready quickly, or she may die
while you're talking."

Bill threw off his coat and rolled up his sleeve, showing an arm as big
as an ordinary leg. The doctor rushed for his instruments, and while
he was gone the owner asked brokenly of Bill how it happened.

"I do not know, sir," he answered, resolved not to describe the scene
to her disadvantage. "I did not see her fall. I think nobody saw her
fall."

"God grant that she lives!" said the old man, all the austerity gone
from his face. "I can do nothing, willing as I am, for I am old and
feeble; but you are young and strong. You see, there is much at stake
beside by own grief and suffering. She is my daughter, and the real
owner of this yacht, and every bond, and share, and mortgage that I
control. Should she die, I would die myself--from poverty and want,
while her relatives would obtain control. Still," and the old man
stiffened up, "why should I speak of this? She is my daughter. I love
her, for she is all I have left. Save her life, and while I live I am
at your command."