This was too much for me. Dimly realizing that there was a psychic,
if not moral, sympathy between us, yet unwilling to defy _this_
THING that troubled him, or even to question him, I sang out
to the man at the wheel, whom I could just perceive through a crack
left by the partly opened hatch.

"On deck, there!" I called. "On deck, you at the wheel! Tell the
skipper that this man down here has the jimjams, and needs attention."

He answered me, and then I heard his voice, calling forward. Soon the
captain appeared, dropping down the hatch, and stepping quickly out
of our reach. In spite of his demonstration with the pistol, he was a
kindly faced man of about fifty, slight and stoop-shouldered, a man
that any troubled soul might appeal to.

"What seems to be the matter here?" he asked, looking us over.

"D. T.'s, captain," I answered, pointing to Fred. "He needs a drink,
and then some bromide, or whatever you have for the symptoms."

"But _you_ seem to be all right."

"All but the scalp wound from your belaying pin, captain," I answered.
"It came too late, from what I have heard."

"Yes, you had killed my first mate before I could reach you. I did
not want to shoot. What manner of men are you, who can kill with your
hands? My mate is dead; my second mate unable to speak, scarcely able
to breathe. How did you do it?"

"As for me, captain," I answered, "I did not know I was doing it. He
struck me in my watch below; I wasn't on deck. I never was struck
before in my life, not even as a boy. And when I have been aft, I never
needed to. Of course, I'm sorry if I have killed him."

"You have," he responded mournfully. "We gave him sea burial at noon.
Have you been aft?"

"As second mate in schooners. I am not a good navigator. My friend,
here, my playmate, schoolmate, and townsman, is a graduate of
Annapolis, and if you can get the jimjams out of him he can navigate;
for, captain"--I looked him squarely in the face--"I understand your
predicament."

"I will think," he answered, after a pause. "I will admit this,
now--that you were both sorely provoked, and that I am sorry I shipped
such mates. Like you, I never struck a blow or received one in all my
going to sea. But I want to know how this young man mastered my second
mate." He looked at Fred, still brushing his knees, and staring into
the dark corners. The query was repeated before Fred answered.

"Oh," he said, as he raised his manacled hands, and pressed his fingers
into his throat below the ears. "I did this. I've studied it, and when
I felt his thumbs in my eyes I gave it to him. He will recover speech
and breathing in time."

"Jiu jitsu, captain," I added, in explanation. "I've heard of the
trick. They teach a great many things at Annapolis not down in the
curriculum."

What the captain might have said in response was prevented by Fred's
plea for a drink, and the sad-faced man withdrew, promising to send the
steward.

Fred, tranquilized by a drink of whiskey and a large dose of bromide,
was soon sound asleep; and a few moments later I followed him into
the land of Nod, where I found the clawed monster and the clawless,
headless, eyeless _thing_. I fought the former and fled from the
latter, wakening at last from extremity of terror, with my clothing
drenched with perspiration. Fred was still asleep, and I was satisfied
to leave him so, and remain awake myself. Even then, with my limited
knowledge of psychology, I remembered that I tried to puzzle out this
strange bond of soul between this weakling and myself; but I could not
solve the problem. All that I could formulate was that in my presence
he could fight, and be a man; in my absence, or when unconscious, he
was a sniveling whiner. As for the nightmares that came to me lately
from contact with him, I had suffered from them before he was born.
This was what stopped me; I could not understand this.

After supper, when Fred was awake, and more or less normal, we received
another visit from the captain. He spoke first to me.

"You are a man of force and character," he said, "and of some
education, I can see."

"A high-school graduate, captain, nothing more."

"Are you a navigator, as you say?"

"I can take the sun for latitude, that's all."