Felton heard, but was watching the descent of the shell. It went out
of sight like the others, but soon he saw the uplift of deck, the
yellow smoke of explosion, and a dismounted gun flying overboard.

"My God, captain!" he exclaimed. "Is this legitimate warfare? What
chance has she? She can't hit back. That was the only gun she had with
elevated trunnions."

"And she cost about four millions, didn't she?" answered the captain,
derisively. "Did you ever hear about the boy who was reproved for
clubbing a mule tied to a post? His excuse was that it had no darn
business to be a mule. Mine is that you've no darn business to build
battleships."

"Well, we may build airships, too," said Felton, helplessly.

He said no more, but watched, while his ship was picked to pieces.
The after turret went next, its big guns lifting and falling across
each other. It took two shells to do this, though the second may have
had aid from the magazine beneath; for the whole turret rose with the
explosion. Then the eight-inch turrets, one after the other, shattered
to shapeless lumps under that terrible dropping bombardment; then the
superstructure, with its inclosed armament of six-inch and smaller
guns, received the fire; and when the whole expanse was an uneven
tangle of riven plates, twisted rods, smashed boats, and uprooted
ventilators, the funnels came in for attention. Three open, ten-foot
tubes leading to the vitals, water-tube boilers and steam connections,
one after another belched upward a mighty white cloud, and after each
uprush of steam the dropping of bombs ceased until the steam had
thinned; for in this deadly, leisurely destruction of a battleship, no
bombs need be wasted.

There was still the gaping hole where once had been the forward turret,
and the commander seemed to be studying this, as Felton, sick at heart
and furious with impotent rage, lifted his gaze from the wreck, which,
rolling slowly from filled compartments, smoking with inward flame, and
covered with crawling dots seeking escape from the inferno beneath,
had lately been his refuge and his home--the invincible, impregnable
_Argyll_--queen among battleships.

"I say, there," called the captain to Felton. "What blew up that
forward turret? No gun fire can reach a magazine, and it wasn't I that
did it."

"How do I know? Perhaps it was something else like you," snapped Felton.

"Do you think," and the commander's face took on an anxious expression,
"that it might have been a submarine's torpedo?"

"Find out."

"That's what I'll have to do. We'll go down and see."

One of the men, a big, lumbering fellow with a dull, moon-like face,
came up to where Felton lay and kicked him.

"Don't talk like that to the boss," he said.

"D-- you!" yelled Felton. "You kick a man bound and down. Loose my
hands, if you dare. Loose my hands! I won't need my feet."

"Loose him," called the captain, unconcernedly.

"Give him his way."

The man stooped and unfastened the cord which held Felton's wrists,
then, even as he scrambled to his feet, he released his ankles.

"Now, you dog, take it," he growled, launching his fist at the man's
face. It landed squarely, and the man went down, bleeding. He arose,
but instead of resisting, or making any attempt to strike back, stood
placidly in his tracks while the angry man struck him again.

Once more he went down, to rise again and tranquilly face his
assailant. Felton hesitated, while his anger cooled a little; this kind
of fighting was new to him. But the kick in his ribs flashed into his
mind and the anger came back. "Fight! Fight!" he growled, and again
knocked the fellow down. This time he put all his strength, and the
weight of his body into the blow, with the result that the man reeled
aft past the steering gear before he fell. He sat up and turned his
swollen, bleeding face toward Felton, but did not rise nor speak.

"You've had enough, I judge," said Felton. "Any one else here who wants
to kick me?"

No one answered. They were all looking down, and even the victim joined
in the scrutiny. Not one had seemed in any way interested in the fracas.

"Come on. Who's next?" said the puzzled Felton.