"The wind shifted, and the mizzen royal-yard shook out of her," said
the second mate from near the wheel, "and something came down and hit
him on the head."

Lifting my wife to her feet, I examined him hurriedly, but found no
cause for alarm. He was simply stunned by some falling object. "Let him
lie where he is, and he'll come to directly," I said, and, leaving him
to his mother, I joined the second mate to ask of Jim.

But a voice from the top of the house interrupted my query--a voice
like the blast of a speaking-trumpet, strangely like Jack's. And
there was Jim beside the mizzenmast, bareheaded and erect, his
stoop-shoulders squared, his eyes staring straight before him into the
horizontal rain and drift from the combers. "Ready about," he had said
in that borrowed voice. "Hard alee!"

My wife screamed again, stood up, and stared at the figure on the
house, and in a bound I had reached her.

"It's your boy Jim," I said in her ear, "but keep quiet. He's asleep."
She knew what I meant, and stood still, staring with wide-open, hungry
eyes at Jim, with an occasional downward glance at Jack.

"Get down off that house," sang out the second mate angrily.

"Let him alone," I shouted, "and do what he orders. Do you hear? Obey
his orders to the letter. They will be correct."

I hardly knew this myself, but the second mate believed me. He
motioned to the helmsman, who ground the wheel hard down. Forward,
the forecastle men had let go the foretopmast staysail sheet, and
this sail flapped furiously as the ship came slowly up to the wind. I
hastened to the compass and looked. Though I could not have named the
points, I could see that the wind was now blowing from the southwest,
and that the ship _had_ been heading nearly straight for that line of
sand. I went back to my wife, and Jim turned his expressionless face
and sleepy eyes toward the second mate, who had nervously followed me.

"Go forward," Jim commanded; "cockbill and stand by the lee anchor to
let go at the word; then stand by with the carpenter to make fast the
spring-line to the chain forward of the windlass, and to slip the chain
at the first shackle abaft. And send two men aft to attend this line at
the quarter-bitt."

"Aye, aye, sir," answered the astounded officer, hastening to obey.

Limerick was one of the men sent aft to the spring-line, and his
amazement exceeded that of the other. "Goin' to clubhaul her," he said
to me, "an' he don't know the compass, he's only a barber man an' no
sailor. It beats my goin' to sea."

With my arm about my wife I watched the somnambulist, ready to speak
to him if I thought the occasion warranted it, ready to prevent
others from speaking; for the sleepy mind of Jim--or the soul of the
unconscious Jack, if you like--might obey an unwise or misleading word,
even now.

Slowly and more slowly the great ship came up against the pounding of
the southerly seas, wavered, and stopped with the weather leech of the
maintopsail just lifting.

"Let go the lee anchor," thundered Jim. The anchor was dropped, and the
chain rattled out of the hawse-pipe.

"Maintopsail haul," came the next order from Jim in the same vibrant
voice. The lee main- and weather cro'-jack braces were cast off, and
the after yards came around with a swing and a crash that threatened
to take them out of her; but they held, and the opposite braces were
tautened.

"Is Jim a sailor, too?" my wife whispered.

"No," I answered gently. "He is doing Jack's work for him. Thank God
for your boy to-night. He is saving our lives."

Slowly the ship's head sagged away from the wind; then it stopped and a
tremor went through her. The anchor had bit, but was dragging.

"Pay out on that chain," roared Jim to the forecastle, then to Limerick
he said quietly, "Catch a turn with that spring and stand by to slack
away."

"Very good, sorr," answered Limerick, as he took a turn with the line
around the bitt. "Oh, he's a navy officer, all right, sorr," he said
joyously, but softly to me. "I've been there an' I know 'em."

Again the ship's nose drew up into the wind under the strain of the
still dragging anchor, and when head to it, with the foretopsail aback
and tending to throw her still farther, Jim called out: "Hang on to
your chain. Make fast the spring to the chain, and knock out the
shackle-pin." Then he waited a moment or two, until the heaving ship
unmistakably pointed to the southward of the wind's eye, and shouted:
"All hands on the forebraces. Fore bowline. Let go and haul. Slip the
chain." Then quietly to Limerick: "Handsomely on that spring when the
strain comes. Don't part it."