"If you young fellows knew," he remarked dryly, "all that you surely
learn later, you'd let the stuff alone. I'm part owner here, and when
you went on that drunk and quit me I had made up my mind to put you in
command. 'Tend to business, now, and you can take her out next voyage."

"I'll make good, sir," I answered, pleased with the prospect, and
willing to be thought an ex-drunkard rather than an ex-convict.

"But keep still about it," he said. "The principal owner is on board
for the trip home. Your job is to impress him before the proposition is
put up to him. He's somewhat crotchety and queer."

I joined the ship--a big, black, skysail yarder, filled to the hatches
with sugar and jute--as she was lifting her anchor. We went to sea in
a gale, and for two days and two nights I had not time to unpack my
chest, much less to take note of my surroundings and the impression
I was creating as a first mate fitted to command. I saw the owner
occasionally in the brief lulls of shortening down--a tall, spare
figure, muffled to the nose in a hooded mackintosh--but I did not meet
him until the morning of the third day out, when, after an hour or two
of sleep, I turned out for a look around before going to breakfast, and
there, in the forward companion, ran plump into him. The next moment
I had him by the throat, position, prospects, honor, love, and liberty
going down before the uprush of rage and hatred.

There flashed into my mind at that moment a memory from boyhood,
forgotten through the years, of his father being largely interested
in shipping, but it was futile, irrelevant, and left me as it came;
then, while he sagged under my grip, there came to me the picture of
Grace Morton's frightened face as she had turned it up to me in the
lamplight. But I forced it from me. That love is dead, I thought, and
I hissed the thought through my teeth with my curses. Then, thinking
of the long, bitter years in prison, the suffering and the shame, the
thwarted hopes and plans, the struggle to maintain my integrity for
the sake of a girl that had forgotten me, and knowing only that the
cause of it all was right here, in my hands, I felt what I had not felt
before--the impulse, the desire, and the self-justification to kill.

But I did not kill him. I relaxed my hold and looked into the same
frightened face that had appealed to me once before. Older now, with
lines of care and trouble in it, but more womanly and commanding. She
stood in the dining-room door, and had commanded me to stop; and I
obeyed her. Her brother slunk past her into the dining-room. The second
mate was on deck, the steward had not come aft with the breakfast. The
captain had not come through from the after cabin. None but the girl
had seen the assault.

"Go to your room, George," she called to him through the door. "Wait
for me, and say nothing to the captain."

Then she turned, and calmly regarded me. On my part, I stood before her
like a culprit, trembling, and with my tongue dry against the roof of
my mouth.

"Jack," she said, "I have watched you through this window since we
sailed, watched you in your strength and mastery of your calling. And
I have listened to your voice, that roused me from sleep on the first
night, and which I recognized as yours. And I said to myself that you
were a man, that you must be a man, and that I may have misjudged you.
But here, you assault an invalid for a quarrel over five years old,
that began in my behalf, I admit, but which ended in your own."

"An invalid," I managed to say. "A quarrel--in my behalf? Go on,
please, Miss Morton."

"In your own," she repeated. "Of course, I do not know how men feel,
and what the best may say at times about--about a woman. But could you
not let it drop, instead of resuming it here, on this ship, where I am
a passenger?"

"Please explain. You let _me_ drop, Miss Morton, when I needed you; but
I have not complained. It seems that the slightest inquiry must have
apprised you of my extremity. It seems that something might have been
done that would not compromise you."

It was her turn to be mystified. "What do you mean?" she asked. "Do you
deny me dignity, self-respect, pride, or confidence in myself? Could I
_inquire_ about a man who had taken advantage of my momentary weakness
and boasted of it? Not only boasted, but threatened to a member of my
family that he would follow up his advantage for revenge at a beating?"

"Boasted! Revenge at a beating! Grace, explain yourself. You are
accusing me of something. What is it? Boasting that I kissed you?"

"That," she said, looking defiantly into my face, while two red spots
came to her cheeks. "That, and threatening my brother, after your
defeat at his hands, with making your mastery complete."

"The damnable scoundrel!" I said explosively. "Did he tell you that
lie? Did he say that he defeated me?"