I was a second mate when I met Freddie again. It was when I, with the
first mate of the schooner I belonged to, and two of the crew, were
returning from an evening at the theater, that we passed a group of
young men, smoking cigarettes, and one of the men said:

"Get onto the dudes."

One of them promptly followed, spoke a few sharp, incisive words,
and gave the critic such a thrashing as astonished us all. It was
Freddie, twenty years old, well-dressed and gentlemanly, but with an
aggressiveness that never found warrant in his childhood. When he had
licked the man, I talked with him amicably.

"Oh, yes," he said. "I'm a seafaring man, too, only I went through
Annapolis, and will start on my practice cruise in a week or so. Then
I'll get my commission in the navy."

"You've done well, Fred." I felt moved to drop the "Freddie." "I've put
in seven years, and am only second mate in schooners."

"But you can do better," he answered. "Why, every day of my life I've
thought of you, done the things and said the things that I fancied you
might do or say. I never forgot the time you kicked the monster."

"Oh, when you were a baby?" I answered. "Why, I'd about forgotten that,
myself."

"Shake your crowd," he said, "and I'll shake mine. Come with me, and
talk. I've lots to say."

We talked that evening, to little results. I found Fred vapid,
flippant, and uninteresting. He had spent his childhood and youth at
home, winning prizes at Sunday school and at the dancing academy.
At Annapolis, he had learned boxing and football; but, never in his
life had he struck a blow in anger until this evening, when he had
thrashed an able seaman. He was as surprised at the feat as I was
myself, and asked me if he had done it in the fit and proper manner. I
was disappointed in him, and left him, with a willingness not to meet
him again. And that night I had the frightful dreams of my childhood,
though not then, nor before nor since, have I been a drinking man.

I may as well describe them now, for they appeared again and again
while we lay in port, and bear strongly upon this story. There was the
menacing monster that I had recognized by Fred's childish description,
and the imaginary thing which I had kicked away from him--a creature
of teeth and eyes, of horns, claws, wings, and scales, familiar to all
sensitive children, perhaps, and possibly descended through the ages as
a primordial memory of some prehistoric reptile. But this, terrifying
though it was, did not afflict me greatly; for I was somewhat familiar
with it, and even in my dreams knew that I could escape it by flight,
and in the waking, or half-waking, condition drive it from me by
imagined attack.

It was a new element in these new dreams that made me dread the night
as a time of torment and horror, and finally so worked upon my nerves
that, ascribing it to the influence of my environment, I quit my berth
long before the day of sailing.

This new thing can be described easier than realized. It was
dark, deadly quiet, and inert, formless, except for its three
dimensions--about two feet long, and six inches broad and high, with
neither eyes, feet, wings, teeth, tail, ears, nor even a mouth. Yet it
had power of volition, and was always behind me. It followed me across
miles of open country, through pathless jungles, through long, spacious
halls, sometimes lighted, but always empty.

In one dream I took to an open boat, and pulled frantically to sea,
only to find it at my back when I turned for a sight ahead. Again I
climbed a tree, and saw it resting on the bough behind me.

It was on this account that I changed my berth, shipping before the
mast on a deep-water ship, to get out of that port the more hurriedly.
And as I wakened at seven bells, on the first morning out, and rolled
out for my breakfast, I heard the plaintive voice of my childhood
friend, Fred. He was out on deck, evidently of the other watch; for he
was dressed in the tarry rags of a merchant sailor, and held in his
hand a deck swab, with which he was endeavoring to dry a wet scupper,
while the second mate lashed him with a rope's end.

He shrank under the blows, and tears ran from his eyes; but he had no
sooner spied me, staring in amazement from the forecastle door, than
his attitude changed. Dropping the swab, with fury in his still wet
eyes, and oaths on his lips, he launched himself at his tormentor.
There was a confused tangle of limbs for a few moments, and Fred
emerged the victor.

The second mate, his face somewhat disfigured, limped aft for
assistance, and Fred turned to me.

"God!" he said brokenly. "I'm glad you're here."