So I went forward, passing on the way the two mates, the one assisting
the other. As I passed, the second mate called out that the other's
jaw-bone and some ribs were broken, and that my services were needed;
but, feeling enough of indignation to make the brutal first mate the
last on my list of patients, I went on, and found the mistreated sailor
in the port forecastle, where he had been carried by his shipmates. He
was sitting on a chest, just recovering his senses, and looking about
in a dazed manner out of swollen and blackened eyes. As the men parted
to make way for me Jack's mighty voice sounded from amidships: "Weather
main-brace, here. Where's the watch? Where's the second mate? Attend to
your yards, sir." Obviously, Jack was himself again.

"I didn't mean to hit the mate wi' him, sorr," said the big Irishman
deferentially, "an' it was a dom shame for the mate to slug him like
that, even if he was no sailor. But the skipper's a brick. Be-gob,
he'll 'tind to that bunco mate."

"Are you hurt much?" I asked of the victim. He looked into my face,
then, rising, burst forth:

"Doctor, doctor, take me away from here. Take me out of this place.
They hit me and curse me because I don't know things. I don't know
why I am here--I don't know where I am." The broken voice became a
wail. "I'm on the water again and I'll drown, I know I'll drown. Oh,
doctor"--he seized my arm--"I'm Jim; don't you know me, doctor?"

"Jim?" I queried. "Jim who?" and turned him to the light.

"Look, doctor. You did this, they told me, when I was a baby." He
pulled up the right sleeve of a ragged, filthy shirt, and showed me a
dot of india ink just below the elbow.

"For God's sake, are you Jim, the twin brother of Jack? We all thought
you were dead--drowned with your father."

"He was drowned, doctor. I floated on a piece of board and was saved. I
went crazy for a while, and then--I never could get along. I couldn't
get work, and things got worse and worse, and then I took to the road,
and then I came to New York, and--I guess I got drunk, and got here."

"Shanghaied, that's what ye were," grunted the Celt.

I looked closely at Jim's face. Aside from the facial angle and the
color of his eyes there was no resemblance to the brother who, at seven
years of age, had been his counterpart. A badly kept beard added to
the discrepancy, no doubt, but the whole atmosphere of the man was
different. There was a slight reminder of Jack in the lower tones of
the voice, but its usual note was a whine, and in his whole bearing was
the slinking aspect of a vagrant of the worst kind. Certainly, I could
not take this human wreck into the presence of that mother and brother.

"You must stay here for a while, Jim," I said firmly. "You must not
come near the other end of the ship unless I give you permission, and
I will see that you are protected and cared for. Understand? Stay here
with these men, and I will see you every day. What is your name?" I
asked the Irishman.

"Limerick, sorr--aboard ship."

"Limerick, you seem to be a man, and a square one. This is an old
friend of mine--and of my family--but you can understand that he must
stay here. See that he is well treated, and I will make it right with
you."

"I will that, sorr," answered Limerick promptly, "though I belong in
the other watch an' ought to be on deck now. I don't wonder ye're
ashamed o' him, sorr. I'm ashamed meself. Just the same I'll break the
sconce o' the first mon that lays hands on him. I'll do that for ye,
sorr. I know a gintleman, an' ye're one, or ye wouldn't be here in this
fo'c'sle."

I went aft and joined Jack and his mother on the poop, forgetting the
mate's need of my services in the mood I was in.

"Dad," said Jack, addressing me by the name he had called me since I
had become his stepfather, "you're a physician. Tell me what ails me.
I'm all right now, but I went for the mate for doing just what I had
told him to do, and then went into a blue funk over it--frightened out
of my senses. But what at? I'm not afraid of any man aboard."

"How is the poor man that was struck?" asked my wife anxiously.

"He's all right," I answered promptly, understanding now her
instinctive concern, and inclined to smile at Jack's palpable
resentment of it.

"But what's the matter with _me_?" he demanded sharply.

"I don't know, Jack," I said. "I'll have to think it out."