"If you have restored this man's memory, sir, you may succeed with our
man. I am perfectly willing you should try. We have always failed. I
suppose you want a quiet room. Come with me, and I will send for the
man."

He led us into a small, vacant bedroom, containing, beside the bed, a
washstand and one chair. The doctor called for more chairs, and then
said:

"It is best perhaps that you should know something about him before he
arrives, as he is intelligent and sensitive in his present personality.
Besides his utter loss of memory, he carries the strangest antipathy to
cats and dogs--"

And here, as though in confirmation of the description, a huge cat
bounded into the room, followed by a frenzied-eyed man, who uttered
incoherent snarls and growls, as he endeavored to catch the cat.

"That's the man," said the doctor. "Look out."

Following the maniac was the nurse, who endeavored to stop the chase;
but he could not hold the violent patient, though the cat had a
moment's reprieve. It glared at its enemy from a corner; then, as the
pursuer bounded toward it, the cat sprang to my head and shoulders,
spitting and snarling defiance, and from my head, which was rather
bald, it leaped to the head of the doctor--which was balder--thence to
the floor, and out of the room. The patient pursued, but was stopped
and held by the doctor and nurse.

"Sit down in that chair," said the doctor, "and behave yourself."

The frenzy left the man's eyes, and he quietly obeyed.

"I have told you often enough," said the doctor to the nurse, "to keep
that cat out of this ward." He wiped the blood from his bare scalp.
"Why are not my instructions carried out?"

"It was not my fault, sir," answered the nurse. "I do not know who let
the cat in."

"Never let it happen again. Bring those chairs in."

"Wait, doctor," said the professor. "Can you send in a bench about a
foot high, or, if not, a bucket or pail. I want to seat this man on
something hard."

There was no such bench, he was informed, but a large pail came in with
the chairs.

I had been studying the patient. He was a middle-sized, middle-aged
man, with a careworn face and gray hair and beard, and he sat
tremblingly in his chair, and looked pleadingly at the doctor.

"I could not help it, doctor," he said. "I hate them--they madden me."

"Never mind, Monson," answered the doctor kindly; "but we're going to
try again to take it out of you. You must sit still and be hypnotized."

"What! More of that foolishness! It never did any good."

"Not hypnotized this time--mesmerized. This gentleman thinks he can put
you to sleep. If he succeeds, you will remember your past. Isn't it
worth trying? Come, now; be sensible."

He looked at the professor doubtingly, and I also looked at him,
noticing perhaps what the doctor did not--that he was trembling from
head to foot, and that the muscles of his mouth twitched; but he
pulled himself together and approached the patient.

"Yes, my poor fellow," he said, in his kindly voice, "it can be done.
I have never failed. You will remember your former name and all your
early life."

"I have studied this thing a little," answered Monson, "and I
understand that it is done by suggestion to the subconscious mind."

"You are right. And as you seem to be a well-informed, intelligent man,
it will be all the easier. Come over here, and sit down on the upturned
pail."

He changed his seat, and the professor, warning us to perfect silence,
made a few passes over the man's head and down before him.

"Sit up, now," he commanded, "and don't fall over." Monson stiffened
straight, and the professor continued his passes until Monson's eyes
took on a fixed expression. Then the mesmerist began twitching and
pulling his patient's hair, sometimes gently, and again roughly. Then
he took a chair, seated himself before Monson, as he had done in my
case, and, taking his hands in his own, commanded him to stare at his
eyes.