"God love you, Mabel!" I said. "But what roused you last night--to tell
me--to follow me?"

"What he threatened after you had warned him again. He purposed to
strike you again on the first pretext, and allow you to attempt his
life; then to have you imprisoned for murderous assault. He did not
believe you would actually kill him; but I knew you would. I wanted to
beg you not to try, to be patient, to hold your temper."

"Had you asked me that, Mabel," I said, "I think I should."

After breakfast that morning the body of the mate was given sea burial;
then there followed a curious court of inquiry at the mizzen hatch--a
court in which the two accused prisoners were also witnesses against
each other, and in which the testimony of the only positive witness
was invalidated by lack of identification. Mabel could only say that
she had seen one of them draw his head and shoulders out of the mate's
window just as his agonized scream had smitten her ears, and look into
her face as she peered at him from the head of the steps. But she could
not tell one from the other. The men had heard the screams; but had
seen nothing but myself, bending over the girl.

Bill's testimony was direct and short. He did not change it, nor
attempt to qualify it. The sheath knife was his, he admitted, and it
had not been touched by him. On the yard he had seen me go forward and
into the companion; he had seen the girl follow, peer in at me, and go
to the lee steps; and he had seen Tom leave the wheel when the girl had
entered the alley, hurry along the lee alley, pick up the knife, reach
into the window, and leave it there. He had heard the two screams, had
seen me emerge and bend over the girl after she had fallen down the
steps, had seen the captain arrive, and when four bells had struck he
had answered and come down; for his punishment had ended.

Tom had more to say. First, he had seen Bill drop from the bight of a
lee cro'-jack buntline to the house just where the knife was placed.
He had seen him pick up the knife, jump to the alley, and after the
mate had screamed spring back to the house and disappear behind the
cro'-jack as he climbed the buntline. He had watched him farther aloft
as he appeared on the cro'-jack yard, and had seen him go up the lee
topmast rigging to the upper yard from which, when he had struck four
bells, he had answered.

"You inhuman pair of scoundrels!" spluttered Captain Merwin
indignantly. "No matter which is guilty--for a twin brother to swear
away the life of the other! It is incredible, unheard of! Why didn't
you speak at once--either of you--both of you?"

To this they each coolly announced a satisfaction with the death of the
mate and a disinterestedness in the fate of the other as to minimize
their responsibility.

I now further clouded the case by my own speculations; that Tom could
not have left the wheel without the ship's broaching to, and that Bill
had not the time in which to descend and return, even had he been able
to choose the exact moment. But to this Tom gave immediate answer.

"Can you remember the time it took, sir," he asked me, "from your
lookin' at him aloft to your hearin' him sing out at four bells?"

"About four minutes," I said, after a moment's thought.

"Now, I'll prove it, sir, that it was plenty of time. I s'pose the lee
buntlines haven't been touched since then, have they?"

The boatswains testified that they had not, and Tom requested that
his irons be removed for his demonstration. He was freed, and stepped
toward the weather alley. "Now, I'll go aloft, Mr. Rogers," he said,
"to the same place on the yard as he was, and you take the same place
on the quarter where you was when you seed him up there. Then you start
forward, just as you did, and I'll do just what he did."

The captain nodded assent to this, and I went aft to the log while Tom
danced aloft to the lee topsail yard. "All ready, sir!" he called.
"Start now!"

I faithfully reproduced my steps along the alley, down to the main
deck, and into the passage, where I killed time at the log desk. As I
turned to leave it I heard Tom call, "Now it is, sir!" from the mate's
window, and, stepping out on deck, I went through the pantomime of
leaning over Mabel, talking with the captain, and going to the mate's
room to call him. Before I had reached the door, however, Tom's voice
came from aloft. "Four bells!" he shouted. "All's well!"

I came out. The captain was holding his watch, and Tom was leisurely
descending.

"You were slightly mistaken, Mr. Rogers," said the captain. "He did
it in less than three minutes. He slid down the middle buntlines of
the treesails, took time enough at the window, and went up hand over
hand forward of the cro'-jack, then up the topmast rigging. He has
proved his innocence by proving his brother guilty. But--God help such
brothers!"