As for her, she seemed to enjoy his society, would talk with him by the
hour, watch him with interest as he would stand at the break of the
poop bellowing orders to the men, and respond to his inevitable smirk
with the sweetest of smiles. She gave me never a look, and, as the
captain seldom spoke to me now, and the mate not at all except in the
way of work, my sense of isolation had so grown upon me that I resolved
this passage would be my last with Captain Merwin.

In this rebellious mood I lay smoking in my berth one second dog-watch,
waiting for eight bells and listening to the mate's sallies and Mabel's
laughter through the open window of my room, and to an occasional sharp
word of command to Bill, who, at the wheel, was making hard work of
steering. Though it was southern summer and warm, a half-gale blew
from the starboard quarter, and this, with the following sea, would
have taxed the powers of a better helmsman than Bill. But, instead
of sending such a better man to relieve Bill, Mr. Butterell chose to
heckle the poor greenhorn until, as I could see by ranging the clouds
through my window, the ship was yawing frightfully, two points each
side of her course, and in danger of broaching to or going by the lee.
Some skippers and mates never learn that bad steering is not improved
by criticism, and when eight bells struck I went on deck, angry and
disgusted with the purblind bully.

I found the ship staggering along under an unnecessary and unwise press
of after canvas, the mate still berating Bill, who was desperately
heaving on the wheel, and Mabel seated in a deck chair on the weather,
or starboard, quarter. Following me along the lee alley came the twin
brother Tom to relieve Bill at the wheel; but before allowing him to
take the spokes I steadied the ship myself. Then I relinquished the
spokes to Tom and turned officially to relieve the mate.

But he had other matters on his mind. Collaring Bill before he could
give the course to his brother, he hurled him violently against the
lee quarter rail, then followed and drove him, with kicks and punches,
forward along the alley.

"Now, then, you long-jawed farmer," he shouted to the cowering man,
"up aloft wi' you! Up the lee rigging you go, and over the lee futtock
rigging, to the upper topsail yard, and out the lee yardarm! Hear me?
The lee upper topsail yardarm, where you keep a lookout till four
bells."

"Yes, sir," answered Bill in a curious throaty voice as he scrambled
into the rigging.

"And when the bells strike, you answer them, d'you hear? You sing out,
'One bell--all's well! Two bells--all's well!' and so on. Hear?"

"I hear," snarled Bill, "and by Gawd I'll have your life for this!"

Mr. Butterell's life for a second time had been threatened on board
that ship, and there was an explosiveness in the words, "I'll have your
life for this!" that indicated their sincerity. Then followed a volley
of village billingsgate as Bill made the hard climb on the slackened
rigging, and Mabel rose from her seat; but the mate's answer silenced
Bill, and she resumed it.

"Here!" he said, picking up Bill's knife, which had evidently jolted
out of its sheath in the fracas. "This is what you want? I'll put it
right here, on the house over my window. You can knife me when I'm
asleep, and save your friend the trouble." Then he placed the knife
carefully within the covering board of the house, and came aft with his
smirk, strongly visible in the moonlight.

I was standing beside Tom watching his steering--for he was getting as
nervous over it as his brother--and directly in front of Mabel's chair.
But I was not yet in charge of the deck.

"Mr. Butterell," said the girl calmly as he approached, "I must ask you
not to arouse the men to such language as I have just been compelled to
listen to. I am not accustomed to it."

The smirk left his face and it took on a scowl as he realized my
presence. "Why, Miss Merwin," he stammered. "I didn't suppose--"

"That is all, Mr. Butterell!" she interrupted. "I do not care to argue."

"Course due east," he growled, turning to me.

"Due east, sir," I answered.

"And keep that mutt aloft till four bells. If he fails to answer the
bells, keep him aloft the whole watch."

"Is that all, sir? Is the watch relieved?"

"Watch is relieved, all right. No need o' mustering and counting this
moonlight night. You have the deck now. Watch out!"

"Yes, sir," I answered; then, stepping into the weather alley, I
sent my voice forward, "Weather main- and cro'-jack clew-garnets and
buntlines," I shouted, "and come aft here, some o' you, and take in
this spanker!"