But at this period it seemed to him that the tantrums had struck in.
They slept in separate rooms, and one night he awoke to find her
leaning over him with a pail of water poised above his head. Before he
could catch the tilting pail, she had deluged him, but even this did
not disturb his equanimity; he merely sprang out of bed, caught her by
the arm, and asked what he had done to deserve a ducking. She answered
with a scream, and, dropping the pail, clung to him in the darkness.
She did not know where she was--she could not explain, but at last he
understood.

"Do you walk in your sleep, Grace?" he asked, gently.

"Oh, no--yes," she stammered; "but not since our marriage. I thought it
had left me. Oh, I'm so sorry. Did I waken you?"

"With a bucket of water," he answered, dryly as was possible in his
moist condition. "I had the habit when very young, but they cured me by
radical treatment. You're too old to be punished, Grace, but we must
find _some_ way. You may set fire to me next time."

But he knew of no way, and when she had repeated the feat with the pail
of water, and a little later made a midnight assault upon him with
the carving-knife, he could only nail her bedroom window partly open
for ventilation, and put a bolt on his side of her door. Her grief
and horror were pathetic, and it sorely tried Beverton to lock up his
wife like a wild beast; but she had become a menace to his health,
and perhaps his life; for, though on each occasion he had wakened in
time to realize her intent, he had not wakened in time to save himself
completely. He had not quite avoided the downcoming knife; aimed at his
heart, it had grazed his arm as he wrenched from under.

It was a very fine piece of polished hardware, this knife--and belonged
to a carving-set given to them at their wedding. On the day following
her demonstration with it, and before he had announced her sentence of
nightly imprisonment, she had bound the knife, fork, and steel together
with a rosette of ribbons, and with the aid of a step-ladder hung them
high on the dining-room wall; then she burned the ladder, and when
Beverton arrived in the evening showed him the exhibit.

"There," she said, with a determined little frown, "is the only deadly
weapon in the house, and it is out of my reach. Let it stay there; I
hate the sight of it, and could never bear to have it on the table
again; but if it be up there--out of the way--where I can't help seeing
it, perhaps--perhaps--it will--" The rest was convulsive sobbing.

Beverton comforted her, and meaning to lock her up at bedtime,
suggested putting the harrowing reminder out of sight in some safe
place; but she would not consent, even though she approved of the bolt
on her door.

"I might find that knife in my sleep, no matter where you hid it," she
said. "Lock me up, instead, and then, if I pick the lock, I cannot
reach the knife."

So there it remained, and as they used their dining-room for a
sitting-room and as she had resolutely placed the beribboned and
glittering display squarely opposite her favorite seat, she had full
opportunity of benefiting by any deterrent influence it possessed. As
to its possessing such an influence, she could only surmise and hope;
however, she confessed that it fascinated her.

"I can't keep my eyes off it," she explained one evening, while they
sat reading in the dining-room. "For the dozenth time to-night I've
found my gaze creep up to that knife. Why is it? And the hateful thing
makes me sleepy--just looking at it."

"Well," responded Beverton, grimly, "if it could only keep you asleep,
it would be all right, wouldn't it?" Then, observing that the speech
had pained her, he arose, kissed the flushed cheek, and added gently,
"Don't look at it, girl; face the other way and get interested in your
book. What are you reading?"

"It's so hard to get interested," she said, wearily, "in what you
don't understand. It's a sea novel." She held up the book and turned
the leaves. "What does topgallant clewlines mean, Tom?--fore-and-aft,
clew-up and clew-down? And here's a word, 'mizzen.' And
clew-garnet--what does that mean? It's a strange language."

"Blest if I know. Pick the story out. Never mind the descriptions."

They resumed their reading, and it was ten minutes later when Beverton,
aroused by the unusual quiet, looked again at his wife. The book lay
on her lap, held open by her hands, but she was not reading--she was
staring up at the hardware glistening in the lamplight, with eyes that
were wide-open, but almost as lightless as the eyes of a corpse. And
as Beverton looked at them, the eyelids fluttered together and closed
in sleep. Beverton watched, and in a moment they opened, with an
expression in them that he had never seen before--so strange, hard, and
murderous it seemed.