"I was that young fellow," he said, "and this tintype was taken at the
end of that voyage."

"What does it mean?" I gasped. "Have I read your mind?"

"I do not know. It depends upon what else you know yourself. Can you
tell me what killed those men? Can you tell me what killed the nigger,
so that instead of being thrown twenty feet I merely slid down from his
grip and bumped my elbow on the ice? Ice, understand, near the equator,
in the Indian Ocean."

"I do not know," I choked. "Did this happen? When did it happen?"

"Nearly fifty years ago, when I was 'fore the mast, unable to
understand. But it was one of the influences that led me to the study
of science. Perhaps I could understand now, if I had the data. But
I cannot remember, and I have not your power of intuition. It is a
wonderful power, but as likely to harm as to help you. Have you studied
physics at all?"

"Only in the most elementary way," I answered. "And something killed
those men, you say--something you do not understand?"

"I can only surmise. Something struck them that froze them stiff,
that turned moving salt water to ice in an instant, that killed the
intelligence that directed it. It was a passenger, a young missionary
going home--a young genius of a man with a bent toward material things,
and a whole boatload of scientific paraphernalia that he was always
experimenting with. He was on the poop-deck when this occurred, but
went clean crazy when I fell to the deck. We put him in the Cape Town
hospital, but up to the last he was demented. He alone could tell what
he did to that bunch of mutineers, but he could not have lived much
longer."

"Tell me the yarn," I suggested. "Perhaps I can make a further guess at
it."

"The best way," he answered, "would be to hypnotize you and question
your subconscious mind. It is done in the hospitals to learn of
mysterious, baffling diseases, and why could not you tell how this
happened? But I never hypnotized anyone, so I'll give you the
yarn--tell you what I know, and perhaps you can get the rest."

He placed his picture, face downward, on my table, seated himself, and
lighted his pipe as a preliminary to his story. But before he could
begin there was a knock at the door, and I admitted Old Bill.

"Thought, sir," he said, "that you might want me to clean up when the
job is done."

This was usual; when a piece of work was in the making I paid no
attention to my place. Only when the last stroke was applied to a
picture did I think of housecleaning, and send for Bill.

"All right," I answered. "But not right away. Come back in an hour,
when we're through talking."

He had entered the room, and nodded at my answer, even though his eyes
were fixed upon the painting on the easel.

"But ye haven't put my face in it, arter all, sir," he said.

"No, you didn't make good, Bill," I answered. Then my attention was
taken by the expression of his face--a curious blankness which I knew
too well. My neighbor noticed, too, and said sharply:

"Brace up, Bill! Brace up, man!"

I knew the remedy from former experience, and happened to have it in a
closet. Quickly pouring a glass of liquor, I gave it to the shaking,
tottering old man, and he swallowed it at a gulp.

"Thank ye, sir," he said a moment later, when he was steadier. "Ye know
I don't drink, sir; but when I feel it comin' on, nothin' else but a
drink'll stop the spell. I'll be back in an hour, sir."

He left, and the artist remarked: "Poor old Bill. He'll go out feet
first one of these days, and that'll be the last of him. Well, I'll
tell you about that bark. I shipped in her at Hongkong, and stuck to
her at Batavia, where every other man 'fore the mast deserted. She was
not exactly a hell ship, as hell ships go; but the skipper and two
mates were American, with American ideas of discipline, and these ideas
were too strenuous for the cosmopolitan crew of Dagoes, Dutchmen, and
Sou'egians that had taken her down the China Sea.

"But the crew we took on at Batavia was worse; there was not a white
man in the crowd. There were three giants among them--one, Wong Fing,
a short-haired renegade from Ningpo, where he was wanted for cutting
his brother's throat. Another was Pango Sam, a West Coast negro, and
a capital seaman, but with a frightful temper. The third was Landy
Jim, and I never knew his nationality. He was a half-breed, or a
fourth-breed; when things went well with him he was yellow, but when
angered he turned black, and his eyes turned red as his hair, which,
though kinky, was the color of a brand-new brick. They were a fine
trio, and the master spirits.