She had not killed him; on the contrary, though he bled copiously
until their aroused servant had summoned the doctor, he recovered
from the wound and loss of blood long before his wife recovered from
the brain-fever that followed her awakening; and it was while she was
delirious, and he convalescent enough to talk that the doctor, after
listening for an hour to her raving one day, entered the room of the
other patient, and said:

"She is past the crisis--perspiring and sound asleep, and will recover
rapidly. But, Beverton, though while delirious she was most certainly
in as subjective a condition as when self-hypnotized, yet she has not
uttered one word of a nautical or piratical nature."

"And what of that?" replied Beverton weakly, but doggedly. "According
to those books of yours"--he pointed to a pile of them at the foot of
his bed--"and I've studied them well while lying here--there are one,
two, or more sub-normal personalities within us, any one of which can
become dominant."

"Admitted; but is that a proof of reincarnation?--that the soul of your
wife once lived in the body of a pirate named Hal Morgan, and that your
soul animated the form of a beauteous maiden captured by him?"

"I can accept no other explanation. As infants we were subconscious
enemies. I drove her back farther, seeking the cause; I saw the
convulsive transition. I heard her use language she could not have
learned in this life."

The doctor smiled, and drawing a book from his pocket, said: "Then here
is something to further strengthen your belief--for a time. I took the
copy of your maidenly speech to a librarian in the city, told him what
was necessary to interest him, and he found this book for me. It is
Pyle's compilation of the lives of the buccaneers, and in Esquemeling's
account of the doings of Captain Henry Morgan is this--" He opened the
book, searched the pages, and read:

"'--but the lady, not willing to consent, or accept his presents,
showing herself like Susannah for constancy, he presently changed
his note, and addressed her in another tone, threatening a thousand
cruelties and hard usages. To all of which she gave only this resolute
and positive answer--'

"Listen now," said the doctor. "'Sir, my life is in your hands; but as
to my body, in relation to that which you would persuade me to, my soul
shall sooner be separated from it, through the violence of your arms,
than I shall condescend to your request.'"

"And what more do you want?" asked Beverton, excitedly. "The very words
I spoke; and I never saw that book."

"Wait," said the doctor, smiling. "This follows:

"'Captain Morgan, understanding this her heroic resolution, commanded
her to be stripped of the best of her apparel, and imprisoned in a
darksome, stinking cellar; here she was allowed a small quantity of
meat and drink, wherewith she had much ado to sustain life.'

"No need of reading the whole account," said the doctor, closing the
book. "This occurred in the city of Panama, which Morgan had just
captured, and the lady was never at sea with him. His men took her from
Tavoga or Tagovilla, and he released her on the march from Panama to
the coast. He did not kill her."

"Then why should I hate her as a baby?"

"I do not know. Children have strange antipathies, and while very young
are much in the subjective state."

"But the sailor talk; where did she get it? Where did I get that
quotation you just read?"

"Telepathy," said the doctor. "It is the subconscious mind which
projects and reads thoughts. You were both subjective from an inherent
tendency and the influence of that shiny knife on the wall. Your fear
of punishment and bedtime prayers were a strong auto-suggestion against
somnambulism; but the knife overcame it in your case, and your wife
never met with any deterrent influence whatever. Now, Beverton, one of
you--it makes no difference which--has read the mind of the other, and
this one has read the mind of some strong, projective personality--some
man or woman thoroughly enthused and interested in the history of the
seventeenth-century pirates--some one who has lately read this book,
and other accounts of Morgan's adventures."

"And the scimitar-like shape of the knife--the sea-story by Cooper?"

"Coincidences, both of them--and suggestions."

Beverton was silent a few moments, then said with a weary sigh: "I
cannot convince myself. I wish I could. It is strong evidence, as you
say, toward telepathy, but does not disprove reincarnation. How did she
find that knife in the snow? It was dark. I did not know where it fell."