It was Dartmoor who saw the chance. He was the son of a wealthy father,
and perhaps the one man of that medical class to feel equal to the
experiments given up by the old professor.

Physically, Dartmoor was exceptionally favored by nature, possessing
one of the most winning personalities I have ever met, and the face and
figure of a Greek god. And to this was added a mental development that
was almost abnormal in its completeness. I had gone through school with
him, and never saw him studying. He seemed to learn his lessons by a
few glances at the page of a book.

He had courage of a high order, but never had a fight in his life, for
he could make an adversary surrender without a fight. He could win
any girl for sweetheart, or any boy for friend. He had his enemies,
carefully chosen by himself, but when he so decided he would make these
enemies his friends. I had been one.

Shortly after our diplomas were given us, Dartmoor secured legal
possession of the freak, with a history of the case. The history was
simple; its mother, a poor immigrant, had died at its birth, and its
father was unknown.

The professor, a visiting physician of the hospital at the time, had
taken it into his sanitarium and cared for it; but beyond keeping it
alive had not helped it. It was a man that had never been conscious--a
human being born without the five senses.

Dartmoor erected a pavilion on his grounds, installed in it the freak,
together with the apparatus for massage and exercise, and gave himself
up to the study of his charge. He had me around once to witness the
experiments, but I was not enthusiastic.

The creature, who was about as old as Dartmoor and myself, lay in
a reclining posture on the exercising frame, staring vacantly with
wide-open, blue eyes. He was full grown, but with the features of an
infant--pudgy nose and pursed-up lips.

Two hinged levers worked by a crank caught his wrists as they lay
extended over his head, lifted him to a sitting position, and pulled
him forward until his fingers touched his feet. Then back he went, to
be again swung forward. When there had been enough of this, two other
levers lifted him by the ankles and brought his feet over his head,
then dropped them back.

Then there were massaging and vibrating apparatus and a portable
shower-bath to finish him off. All this had been going on since his
infancy, and now he was fairly well developed--about six feet tall,
with the muscles of an athlete.

"Dartmoor," I said, when the job was over, "this is a problem for a
college of physicians and surgeons, not for one man."

"But think of the credit," he answered enthusiastically. "Think of the
world's applause if I succeed in giving consciousness to this poor,
animated clay."

"It may be an idiot."

"Not necessarily--an infant, perhaps."

"Where do you think the trouble lies?"

"I do not know; neither does the professor. It is something that
affects the sensory, motor, and sympathetic nerves as a whole. I
shall try the different absorption treatments, and various forms of
radio-activity and ultra-violet rays. Mental suggestion may do it."

"Well, good luck to you. I've a living to make curing live people."

But I did not make a living by my profession. A girl who had said "yes"
at the beginning of my studies now said "no," and it needed no deep
investigation to discover the reason for the change. She had come under
the sway of Dartmoor's personality, and my cause was hopeless.

What made it harder was that he seemed unaware of it. He evidently
cared nothing for her, busying himself with his experiments and never
seeking her. Otherwise I might have had it out with him.

However, the girl's "no" carried with it a denial of all else that
I valued. I was young, unproven, much wrought up, and utterly
irresponsible. For the next five years my life had better be glossed
over. I went to sea, and found in the wandering life of a sailor the
only relief for the aching drag at my breast.

At last, being more sane than insane, I turned over a new leaf and
began to save money. A few years later I found myself owner and master
of a fine little schooner, and, after a few exploring and trading trips
around the South Sea Islands, came upon a pearl fishery which laid the
foundations of a fortune.