And still I fought on, endeavoring to master the firebug without
hurting him--just why, I have never been able to explain to myself.
Possibly, I dimly felt at the time that his sister would not like it,
for I spared him the weight of my fist and the throttling clutch that
would have ended the fight in a moment, even though his own hands had
torn my coat to shreds, and my face was scorched and smeared with
kerosene in one of my whirling lunges toward his bonfire. He, too, must
have felt the heat, for his snarling utterances took on a note of pain,
and for a few moments he struggled in my grasp more furiously than
ever; then he paused, became limp in my hands, and seemed to sink down.
It was a clever ruse, for no sooner had I relaxed my hold than he broke
away and shot out of the room, down the stairs, and into the street.
I let him go, but looked around; the room was in flames on two sides,
while several trails of burning oil traversed the floor.

I believe that some men in my position would have followed him; but I
know that any fireman, policeman, soldier, or sailor would have done
exactly as I did--remain to put out the fire. I dragged the blankets
from the bed, whipped the flames from the walls and windows as I
could, and when they were burned beyond use threw the fragments on to
the still burning bonfire to smother it. As I labored I heard shouts
of "Fire!" in the streets, and welcomed the news that assistance was
coming. Then I heard the clatter and clang of the engines and voices
and footsteps on the stairs. I whipped away at the flames, and just
as I laid the last damaged blanket on the now smouldering fire, a
policeman burst into the room and seized me.

"Caught wi' the goods, hev! Stand still," he said. "Stand still, or
I'll fan you."

I ceased my momentary struggle with him as firemen came in with hose
and an extinguisher, and stopped myself in a half-uttered sentence of
explanation. This was a matter of family honor that need not be made
public.

"It's a job all right, isn't it, Bill?" asked the officer of a fireman
who was calmly playing a small stream from the extinguisher on the
remaining flames.

"Surest job I ever saw," answered the man, turning for a look at me in
the darkening light. "Pretty tough-looking customer. Don't belong to
this town. Smell the kerosene?"

"I smell it all right. You can smell it a mile, and he's got it on his
clothes, too. Come on wi' me, my jewel. You're good for a few years at
Trenton."

Under a fictitious name I spent the night in jail, and in the morning,
before the time for court to open, received a visit from Mr. George
Morton.

"Want to get at the person higher up, Mr. Morton?" asked the jailer, as
they appeared before my cell. "Well, I can give you about half an hour."

"Yes, yes," answered my visitor. "I want to talk with him privately;
so, leave us alone, if you will. But don't get beyond call, please--not
too far away."

"Right. I'll come if I hear from you."

He admitted Morton and locked him in with me, then left us alone.
Morton was clean and well-dressed, with only a nervousness of speech
and movement to indicate that a few hours before he had fought for
liberty and honor with the man he was now facing. He took a seat at the
end of my plank, while I sat at the other end, and took his measure;
thinner and older, of course, than when I had known him at school, but
with the same graceful figure, and handsome, though unpleasant, face.

"Well," I said, with what sarcasm I could command. "Are you here to get
me to tell who hired me to set fire to your house?"

"Not exactly," he answered, eying me closely. "I'm here to find out
what you mean to do."

"I'm waiting on you," I said sharply. "I've kept quiet on your sister's
account, but I expect you to clear up this matter, in any way you can."

"How? By pleading guilty myself? I am also interested in my sister, and
I do not think she would like it."

I looked at him.

"It lies between you and me," he went on. "The evidence at present is
all against you, while there is nothing against me, and nothing in my
record to indicate that I would set fire to the house I had lived in,
but did not own."

"But if your record was known," I growled, "there would be indications
bearing upon this."