“About as much as _you_,” said Speckle. “However, I’m sure I don’t care
how soon you take yourself off, for you take up more room than all the
rest put together.”

“You mind yourself, Master Speckle, or you’ll get something you don’t
like,” said Tip-Top, still strutting in a very cavalier way on the edge
of the nest, and sticking up his little short tail quite valiantly.

“O my darlings,” said the mamma, now fluttering home, “cannot I ever
teach you to live in love?”

“It’s all Tip-Top’s fault,” screamed the other birds in a flutter.

“My fault? Of course, everything in this nest that goes wrong is laid
to me,” said Tip-Top; “and I’ll leave it to anybody, now, if I crowd
anybody. I’ve been sitting outside, on the very edge of the nest, and
there’s Speckle has got my place.”

“Who wants your place?” said Speckle. “I’m sure you can come in, if you
please.”

“My dear boy,” said the mother, “do go into the nest and be a good little
bird, and then you will be happy.”

“That’s always the talk,” said Tip-Top. “I’m too big for the nest, and I
want to see the world. It’s full of beautiful things, I know. Now there’s
the most lovely creature, with bright eyes, that comes under the tree
every day, and wants me to come down in the grass and play with her.”

“My son, my son, beware!” said the frightened mother; “that lovely
seeming creature is our dreadful enemy, the cat,—a horrid monster, with
teeth and claws.”

At this, all the little birds shuddered and cuddled deeper in the nest;
only Tip-Top, in his heart, disbelieved it. “I’m too old a bird,” said
he to himself, “to believe _that_ story; mother is chaffing me. But I’ll
show her that I can take care of myself.”

So the next morning, after the father and mother were gone, Tip-Top got
on the edge of the nest again, and looked over and saw lovely Miss Pussy
washing her face among the daisies under the tree, and her hair was
sleek and white as the daisies, and her eyes were yellow and beautiful
to behold, and she looked up to the tree bewitchingly, and said, “Little
birds, little birds, come down; Pussy wants to play with you.”

“Only look at her!” said Tip-Top; “her eyes are like gold.”

“No, don’t look,” said Singer and Speckle. “She will bewitch you and then
eat you up.”

“I’d like to see her try to eat me up,” said Tip-Top, again balancing his
short tail over the nest. “Just as if she would. She’s just the nicest,
most innocent creature going, and only wants us to have fun. We never do
have any fun in this old nest!”

Then the yellow eyes below shot a bewildering light into Tip-Top’s eyes,
and a voice sounded sweet as silver: “Little birds, little birds, come
down; Pussy wants to play with you.”

“Her paws are as white as velvet,” said Tip-Top; “and so soft! I don’t
believe she has any claws.”

“Don’t go, brother, don’t!” screamed both sisters.

All we know about it is, that a moment after a direful scream was heard
from the nursery window. “O mamma, mamma, do come here! Tip-Top’s fallen
out of the nest, and the cat has got him!”

Away ran Pussy with foolish little Tip-Top in her mouth, and he squeaked
dolefully when he felt her sharp teeth. Wicked Miss Pussy had no mind to
eat him at once; she meant just as she said, to “play with him.” So she
ran off to a private place among the currant-bushes, while all the little
curly heads were scattered up and down looking for her.

Did you ever see a cat play with a bird or a mouse? She sets it down, and
seems to go off and leave it; but the moment it makes the first movement
to get away,—pounce! she springs on it, and shakes it in her mouth; and
so she teases and tantalizes it, till she gets ready to kill and eat it.
I can’t say why she does it, except that it is a cat’s nature; and it is
a very bad nature for foolish young robins to get acquainted with.

“O, where is he? where is he? Do find my poor Tip-Top,” said Jamie,
crying as loud as he could scream. “I’ll kill that horrid cat,—I’ll kill
her!”

Mr. and Mrs. Robin, who had come home meantime, joined their plaintive
chirping to the general confusion; and Mrs. Robin’s bright eyes soon
discovered her poor little son, where Pussy was patting and rolling him
from one paw to the other under the currant-bushes; and settling on the
bush above, she called the little folks to the spot by her cries.