“How about the Mosquitos?” said the Colonel.

“Those horrid Mosquitos,—they are dreadfully plebeian! Can’t one cut
them?”

“Well, dear Miss Katy,” said the Colonel, “if you ask my candid opinion
as a friend, I should say _not_. There’s young Mosquito, who graduated
last year, has gone into literature, and is connected with some of our
leading papers, and they say he carries the sharpest pen of all the
writers. It won’t do to offend him.”

“And so I suppose we must have his old aunts, and all six of his sisters,
and all his dreadfully common relations.”

“It is a pity,” said the Colonel, “but one must pay one’s tax to society.”

Just at this moment the conference was interrupted by a visitor, Miss
Keziah Cricket, who came in with her work-bag on her arm to ask a
subscription for a poor family of Ants who had just had their house hoed
up in clearing the garden-walks.

“How stupid of them,” said Katy, “not to know better than to put their
house in the garden-walk; that’s just like those Ants!”

“Well, they are in great trouble; all their stores destroyed, and their
father killed,—cut quite in two by a hoe.”

“How very shocking! I don’t like to hear of such disagreeable things,—it
affects my nerves terribly. Well, I’m sure I haven’t anything to give.
Mamma said yesterday she was sure she didn’t know how our bills were to
be paid,—and there’s my green satin with point-lace yet to come home.”
And Miss Katy-did shrugged her shoulders and affected to be very busy
with Colonel Katy-did, in just the way that young ladies sometimes do
when they wish to signify to visitors that they had better leave.

Little Miss Cricket perceived how the case stood, and so hopped briskly
off, without giving herself even time to be offended. “Poor extravagant
little thing!” said she to herself, “it was hardly worth while to ask
her.”

“Pray, shall you invite the Crickets?” said Colonel Katy-did.

“Who? I? Why, Colonel, what a question! Invite the Crickets? Of what can
you be thinking?”

“And shall you not ask the Locusts, or the Grasshoppers?”

“Certainly. The Locusts, of course,—a very old and distinguished family;
and the Grasshoppers are pretty well, and ought to be asked. But we must
draw a line somewhere,—and the Crickets! why, it’s shocking even to think
of!”

“I thought they were nice, respectable people.”

“O, perfectly nice and respectable,—very good people, in fact, so far as
that goes. But then you must see the difficulty.”

“My dear cousin, I am afraid you must explain.”

“Why, their _color_, to be sure. Don’t you see?”

“Oh!” said the Colonel. “That’s it, is it? Excuse me, but I have been
living in France, where these distinctions are wholly unknown, and I have
not yet got myself in the train of fashionable ideas here.”

“Well, then, let me teach you,” said Miss Katy. “You know we republicans
go for no distinctions except those created by Nature herself, and we
found our rank upon _color_, because that is clearly a thing that none
has any hand in but our Maker. You see?”

“Yes; but who decides what color shall be the reigning color?”

“I’m surprised to hear the question! The only true color—the only proper
one—is _our_ color, to be sure. A lovely pea-green is the precise shade
on which to found aristocratic distinction. But then we are liberal;—we
associate with the Moths, who are gray; with the Butterflies, who are
blue-and-gold-colored; with the Grasshoppers, yellow and brown;—and
society would become dreadfully mixed if it were not fortunately
ordered that the Crickets are black as jet. The fact is, that a class
to be looked down upon is necessary to all elegant society, and if
the Crickets were not black, we could not keep them down, because,
as everybody knows, they are often a great deal cleverer than we are.
They have a vast talent for music and dancing; they are very quick at
learning, and would be getting to the very top of the ladder if we once
allowed them to climb. But their being black is a convenience,—because,
as long as we are green and they black, we have a superiority that can
never be taken from us. Don’t you see, now?”

“O yes, I see exactly,” said the Colonel.