Old Mother Magpie was about the busiest character in the forest. But you
must know that there is a great difference between being busy and being
industrious. One may be very busy all the time, and yet not in the least
industrious; and this was the case with Mother Magpie.

She was always full of everybody’s business but her own,—up and down,
here and there, everywhere but in her own nest, knowing every one’s
affairs, telling what everybody had been doing or ought to do, and ready
to cast her advice _gratis_ at every bird and beast of the woods.

Now she bustled up to the parsonage at the top of the oak-tree, to tell
old Parson Too-Whit what she thought he ought to preach for his next
sermon, and how dreadful the morals of the parish were becoming. Then,
having perfectly bewildered the poor old gentleman, who was always sleepy
of a Monday morning, Mother Magpie would take a peep into Mrs. Oriole’s
nest, sit chattering on a bough above, and pour forth floods of advice,
which, poor little Mrs. Oriole used to say to her husband, bewildered her
more than a hard northeast storm.

“Depend upon it, my dear,” Mother Magpie would say, “that this way of
building your nest, swinging like an old empty stocking from a bough,
isn’t at all the thing. I never built one so in my life, and I never have
headaches. Now you complain always that your head aches whenever I call
upon you. It’s all on account of this way of swinging and swaying about
in such an absurd manner.”

“But, my dear,” piped Mrs. Oriole, timidly, “the Orioles always have
built in this manner, and it suits our constitution.”

“A fiddle on your constitution! How can you tell what agrees with your
constitution unless you try? You own you are not well; you are subject
to headaches, and every physician will tell you that a tilting motion
disorders the stomach and acts upon the brain. Ask old Dr. Kite. I was
talking with him about your case only yesterday, and says he, ‘Mrs.
Magpie, I perfectly agree with you.’”

“But my husband prefers this style of building.”

“That’s only because he isn’t properly instructed. Pray, did you ever
attend Dr. Kite’s lectures on the nervous system?”

“No, I have no time to attend lectures. Who would set on the eggs?”

“Why, your husband, to be sure; don’t he take his turn in setting? If
he don’t, he ought to. I shall speak to him about it. My husband always
sets regularly half the time, that I might have time to go about and
exercise.”

“O Mrs. Magpie, pray don’t speak to my husband; he will think I’ve been
complaining.”

“No, no, he won’t! Let me alone. I understand just how to say the thing.
I’ve advised hundreds of young husbands in my day, and I never give
offence.”

“But I tell you, Mrs. Magpie, I don’t want any interference between my
husband and me, and I will not have it,” says Mrs. Oriole, with her
little round eyes flashing with indignation.

“Don’t put yourself in a passion, my dear; the more you talk, the more
sure I am that your nervous system is running down, or you wouldn’t
forget good manners in this way. You’d better take my advice, for I
understand just what to do,”—and away sails Mother Magpie; and presently
young Oriole comes home, all in a flutter.

“I say, my dear, if you will persist in gossiping over our private family
matters with that old Mother Magpie—”

“My dear, I don’t gossip; she comes and bores me to death with talking,
and then goes off and mistakes what she has been saying for what I said.”

“But you must _cut_ her.”

“I try to, all I can; but she won’t _be_ cut.”

“It’s enough to make a bird swear,” said Tommy Oriole.

Tommy Oriole, to say the truth, had as good a heart as ever beat under
bird’s feathers; but then he had a weakness for concerts and general
society, because he was held to be, by all odds, the handsomest bird in
the woods, and sung like an angel; and so the truth was he didn’t confine
himself so much to the domestic nest as Tom Titmouse or Billy Wren. But
he determined that he wouldn’t have old Mother Magpie interfering with
his affairs.

“The fact is,” quoth Tommy, “I am a society bird, and Nature has marked
out for me a course beyond the range of the commonplace, and my wife
must learn to accommodate. If she has a brilliant husband, whose success
gratifies her ambition and places her in a distinguished public position,
she must pay something for it. I’m sure Billy Wren’s wife would give her
very bill to see her husband in the circles where I am quite at home. To
say the truth, my wife was all well enough content till old Mother Magpie
interfered. It is quite my duty to take strong ground, and show that I
cannot be dictated to.”