"There is a great lack of unanimity in this trio," complained Amy. "If
I lost the rudder, didn't we all lose it?"

When they reached the inlet, however, the old fisherman was just as
surprising as he had been in the first place.

"Don't blame me," he said when the girls came ashore. "I told you I
didn't know anything about the weather. I wouldn't have been surprised
if you'd lost the boat."

"We only lost a part of it," said Amy quickly. "The rudder."

"Well, it wasn't much good. I can find another around somewhere. Lucky
to get the hull of the boat back, I am."

"You didn't get the whole of it back, I tell you," said Amy, soberly.

He blinked at her, and without even a smile, said:

"Oh! You mean that for a joke, do you? Well, I don't understand jokes
any more than I do the weather. No, you needn't pay me for the rudder.
'Tain't nothing."

The trio had a good deal to talk about when they got home, but Darry
and Burd came in at dinner with the news that the _Marigold_ was all
ready for sea and that they would get under way right after breakfast
the next morning.

Dr. Stanley and his daughter and Jessie and Amy were to be the boys'
guests on this trip, and the idea was to go along the coast as far as
Boston and return. Mrs. Norwood had become used by this time to the
boys going back and forth in the yacht and after her own voyage down to
the island had forgotten her fears for the young folks.

"I am sure Darry will not expose the girls to danger," she said to her
husband. "But I am glad Dr. Stanley is going with them. He has such
good sense."

Henrietta wanted to go along. She did not see why she could not go on
the yacht if "Miss Jessie and Miss Amy" were going. She might have
whined a bit about it, if it had not been that she was reminded of the
Radio Man.

"You want to look out," Amy advised her. "You know the Radio Man is
watching you and like enough he'll tell everybody just how bad you
are."

"Gee!" sighed Henrietta. "It's awful to be responsible for owning an
island, ain't it?"

The girls were eager to be off in the morning and they scurried around
and packed their overnight bags and discussed what they should wear for
two hours before breakfast. Burd was not to be hurried at his morning
meal.

"No knowing what we may get aboard ship," he grumbled. "If it comes up
rough there may be no chance at all to eat properly."

"Now, Burd Alling!" exclaimed Amy. "How can you?"

"How can I eat? Perfectly. Got teeth and a palate for that enjoyment."

"But don't suggest that we may have bad weather. After that tempest
yesterday----"

"You'll have no hotel to run to if we get squally weather," laughed her
brother. "I think, however, that after that shower we should have clear
weather for some time. Don't let the 'Burd Alling Blues' bother you."

"Anyway," said Jessie, scooping out her iced melon with some gusto, "we
have a radio on board and we can send an S O S if we get into trouble,
can't we?"

"Come to think of it," said Darry, "that old radio hasn't been working
any too well. You will have to give it the once over, Jess, when you
get aboard."

This made Jessie all the more eager to embark on the yacht. She was so
much interested in radio that she wanted, as Amy said, to be "fooling
with it all of the time!"

But when they got under way and the _Marigold_ steamed out to sea there
were so many other things to see and to be interested in that the girls
forgot all about the radio for the time being, in the mere joy of being
alive.

Darry had shipped a cook; but the boys had to do a good deal of the
deck work to relieve the forecastle hands. Stoking the furnace to keep
up steam was no small job. The engines of the _Marigold_ were old and,
as Skipper Pandrick said, "were hogs for steam." To tell the truth the
boilers leaked and so did the cylinders. The boys had had trouble with
the machinery ever since Darry had put the _Marigold_ into commission.
But the young owner did not want to go to the expense of getting new
driving gear for the yacht. And, after all, the trouble did not seem to
be serious.