"Belle Ringold!" exclaimed Amy, much amused. "Can't we go anywhere
without Belle and Sally showing up?"

The two girls whom they all considered so unpleasant appeared at the
top of the small hill and came down the path. They were rather absurdly
dressed for an outing. Certainly their frocks would have looked better
at dinner or at a dance than in the woods. And they strutted along as
though they quite well knew they had on their very best furbelows.

"Oh, dear me! there's that awful child again," drawled Belle, before
she saw the older girls sitting at the spring.

"She must be lost away up here," said Sally Moon, idly. "Say, kid, run
get this folding cup filled at the spring."

"What for?" demanded Henrietta.

"Why, so I can drink from it, foolish!"

"You bring me a drink first," said the freckle-faced girl stoutly.
"Nobody didn't make me your servant to run your errands--so now!"

"Listen to her!" laughed Belle. "She waits on Jess Norwood and Amy Drew
hand and foot. Of course she is a servant."

"You ain't a servant when you wait on folks for _love_," declared
Henrietta, quickly.

Amy clapped her hands together softly at this bit of philosophy. Jessie
stood up so that the girls from the hotel could see her.

"Oh! Here's Jess Norwood now," cried Sally. "You might know!"

Little Henrietta was backing away from the two newcomers, but eyeing
them with great disfavor. She suddenly demanded of Jessie:

"Is this spring on a part of my land, Miss Jessie?"

"It may be," said Amy, quickly answering before Jessie could do so.
"Like enough all this grove is yours, Hen."

"Why," gasped Belle Ringold, "my father is just about to take
possession of this place. He is going to have surveyors come on the
island and survey it."

"This is my woods!" cried Henrietta. "It's my spring! You sha'n't even
have a drink out of it--neither of you girls!"

"What nonsense!" drawled Belle. "Who will stop us, please?" and she
came on down the path toward the spring.

The other girls had now got up. Jessie tried to reach out and seize
Henrietta; but the latter was so angry that she jerked away. She stood
before Belle and Sally with flashing eyes and her hands clenched tight.

"You go away! This is my woods and my spring! You sha'n't have a drink!"

"The child is crazy," said Belle, harshly. "Let me pass, you mean
little thing!"

At that Henrietta stooped and caught up dirt in each grubby hand. It
was a little damp where she stood, and the muck stuck to her palms. She
shrieked hatred and defiance at Belle and, running forward, smeared the
dirt all up and down the front of the rich girl's fine dress.

Belle shrieked quite as loudly as the angry Henrietta and threatened
all manner of punishment. But she could not catch the freckled girl,
who was as wriggly as an eel.

"I'll--I'll have you whipped! You ought to be spanked hard!" panted
Belle Ringold. "And it is your fault, Jess Norwood. You egged her on."

"I did not," said Jessie, angrily.

But she was vexed with Henrietta, too. She ran after and caught the
panting, sobbing little thing. She really was tempted to shake her.

"What do you mean, Henrietta Haney, by acting this way and talking so?
Do you want to disgrace us all? For shame!"

"I don't talk no worse than the Ringold one," declared Henrietta.

Jessie tried a new tack. She said more quietly: "But _you_ know better,
Henrietta."

"Yes, ma'am."

"And perhaps she doesn't," ventured Jessie.

"Well--er--she's got money," pouted Henrietta. "Why doesn't she hire
somebody to teach her better? You know I never did have any chance,
Miss Jessie."