"Say, if I get rich can't I do like I want to--like other rich folks?"

"You most certainly cannot. Rich people, if they are to be loved, must
be even more careful in their conduct than poor folks."

"We-ell," confessed the freckled little girl frankly, "I'd rather be
rich than be loved. If I can't be both _easy_, I'll be rich."

"Such amazing worldliness!" sighed Amy, raising her hands in mock
horror.

But Jessie Norwood truly wished the little girl to be nice. Poor little
Henrietta, however, had much to unlearn. She chattered continually
about the island she owned and the riches she was to enjoy. The smaller
children of Dogtown followed her--and the green parasol--about as
though they were enchanted.

"'Tis a witch she certainly is," declared Mrs. Foley. "She's bewitched
them all, so she has. But I'm lost widout her, meself. When a woman
has six--and them all boys--and a man that drinks----"

This statement of her personal affairs had been so often heard by the
three girls that they all tried to sidetrack Mrs. Foley's complaint. It
was Jessie, however, who advanced a really good reason for getting out
of the Foley house.

"I promised Monty Shannon I would look at his radio set," she said,
jumping up. "You will excuse us for a little, Mrs. Foley? You are not
going back to Stratfordtown at once, Bertha?"

"Before long. I have only hired the car for the forenoon. The man has
another job this afternoon. And I must find that Henrietta again,"
for the freckle-faced little girl was as lively, so Amy said, as a
water-bug--"one of those skimmery things with long legs that dart along
the surface of the water."

The trio went out and across the cinder-covered yard to the Shannon
house. The immediate surroundings of Dogtown were squalid, although its
site upon the edge of Lake Mononset might have been made very pleasant
indeed.

"If these boys like Monty Shannon and some of the girls stay at home
when they grow up they surely will improve the looks of the village,"
Jessie had said. "For Monty and his kind are altogether too smart not
to want to live as other people do."

"You've said it," agreed Amy, with enthusiasm. "He _is_ smart. He has
a better radio receiver than you have. Wait till you see."

"How do you know?" asked the surprised Jessie.

"He was telling me about it. You know how often some 'squeak box,' or
other amateur operator, breaks in on our concerts."

"We-ell, not so often now," Jessie said. "I have learned more about
tuning and wave-lengths. But, of course, I have only a single circuit
crystal receiving set. I have been talking to Dad about getting a
better one."

"Monty will show you," Amy said with confidence, as they knocked at the
Shannon door.

The little cottage was small. Downstairs there were but two rooms. The
door gave access to the kitchen, and beyond was the "sitting-room,"
of which Monty's mother was inordinately proud. She was a widow, and
helped herself and her children by doing fine laundry work for the
wealthy people of New Melford.

From the front room when the girls entered came sounds that they
recognized--radio sounds which held their instant attention, although
they were merely market reports at that hour in the forenoon.

"Isn't it wonderful?" Bertha Blair said, clasping her hands. "I never
can get over the wonder of it."

"Same here," Amy declared. "When Jess and I listened to you singing the
'Will o' the Wisp' last night it seemed almost shivery that we should
recognize the very tones of your voice out of the air."

"Huh!" exclaimed Montmorency, grinning. "I got so I know the
announcers, too. When that Mr. Blair speaks I know him. Of course, I
know Mr. Mark Stratford's voice, for I've talked with him. I wouldn't
have such a fine machine here, only he advised me."

"Tell me," Jessie said, "what is the difference between my receiving
set and yours, Monty?"

"If you want to hear clearly and keep outside radio out of your
machine, use a regenerative radio set with an audion detector.
The whole business, Miss Jessie, is in the detector, after all.
A regenerative set of this kind is selective enough--that's the
expression Mr. Mark used--to enable any one to tune out all but a few
commercial stations. And they don't often butt in to annoy you. For
sure, you'll kill all the amateur squeak-boxes and other transmission
stations of that class.