"But where does the island come in?" demanded Amy.

"Now, don't you fuss me all up, Miss Amy," admonished the child. "Where
was I at!"

"You was at the Norwood place. I brought you," said young Shannon.

"Don't you think I know _that_?" demanded the little girl scornfully.
"Well, it's about Padriac Haney's great uncle," she hastened to say.
"Padriac was my father's name and his great uncle--I suppose that means
that he was awful big--p'r'aps like that fat man in the circus we saw.
But his name was Padriac too, and he left all his money and islands and
golf courses to my father. So it is coming to me."

"Goodness!" exclaimed Nell Stanley. "Did you ever hear such a
jumbled-up affair?"

But Montmorency Shannon nodded solemnly. "Guess it's so. Mrs. Foley was
telling my mother something about it. And Spot--I mean, Hen, must have
fallen heiress to money, for she give me a whole half dollar to drive
her over here," and his grin appeared again.

"What I want to know is the name of the island, child?" demanded Amy,
recovering from her laughter.

"Well, it's got a name all right," said Henrietta. "It is Station
Island. And there's a hotel on it. But that hotel don't belong to me.
And the radio station don't belong to me."

"O-oh! A radio station!" repeated Jessie. "That sounds awfully
interesting. I wonder where it is!"

"But the golf course belongs to me, and some bungleloos," added the
child, mispronouncing the word with her usual emphasis. "And we are
going out to this island to spend the summer--Bertha and me. Mrs. Blair
says we can. And she will go, too. The man that knows about it has told
the Blairs how to get there and--and--I invite you, Miss Jessie, and
you, Miss Amy, to come out on Station Island and visit us. Oh, we'll
have fun!"

"That sounds better than any old farm," cried Amy, gaily. "I accept,
Hen, on the spot. You can count on me."

"If it is all right so that we can go, I will promise to visit you,
dear," Jessie agreed. "But, you know, we really will have to learn more
about it."

"Cousin Bertha will tell you," said the freckle-faced child, eagerly.
"I run away to come down here to the Foleys, so as to tell you first.
You are the very first folks I have ever invited to come to live on my
island."

"Ain't you going to let me come, Spot--I mean, Hen?" asked Monty
Shannon, who sat sidewise on the seat and was paying very little
attention to the pony.

As a matter of fact, the pony belonging to the vegetable vender was
so old and sedate that one would scarcely think it necessary to watch
him. But at this very moment a red car, traveling at a pace much over
the legal speed on a public highway, came dashing around the turn
just below the Norwood house. It took the turn on two wheels, and as
it swerved dangerously toward the curb where the pony stood, its rear
wheels skidded.

"Look out!" shrieked Amy. "That car is out of control! Look, Jess!"

Her chum, by looking at it, nor the observation of any other bystander,
could scarcely avert the disaster that Amy Drew feared. But she was so
excited that she scarcely knew what she shouted. And her mad gestures
and actions utterly amazed Jessie.

"Have you got Saint Vitus's dance, Amy Drew?" Jessie demanded.

The red, low-hung car wabbled several times back and forth across the
oiled driveway. They saw a hatless young fellow in front behind the
wheel. In the narrow tonneau were two girls, and if they were not
exactly frightened they did not look happy.

Nell Stanley cried: "It's Bill Brewster's racing car; and he's got
Belle and Sally with him."

"Belle and Sally!" shrieked Amy.

Belle Ringold and her follower, Sally Moon, were not much older than
Amy and Jessie, but they were overbearing and insolent and had made
themselves obnoxious to many of their schoolmates. Wishing to appear
grown up, and wishing, above all things, to attract Amy's brother
Darry and Darry's chum, Burd Alling, and feeling that in some way the
two Roselawn chums interfered in this design, they were especially
unpleasant in their behavior toward them.