"Of course we didn't!" exclaimed Burd's voice from the doorway.

"What are you saying?" demanded his friend, promptly.

"What I know. Don't you remember that you lost the instruction book
overboard sometime there, when we were getting the bothersome thing
fixed?"

"So I did," confessed Darry. "But, say! she was all right then."

"She hasn't ever been all right," accused his chum, "and you know it."

"We sent code signals by the old machine, all right."

"But we've never been able to since we linked it up with this receiving
set, and you know it," said Burd.

"It sounds to me," said Amy, "as though neither one of you boys knew so
awfully much about it."

"I know one thing," said Jessie, with determination. "All the parts are
not here. These connections are not like any I ever saw before. It is a
mystery to me----"

"Hold on!" exclaimed Darry Drew suddenly. "What did we do with all
those little cardboard boxes and paper tubes the parts came in?
Couldn't be we overlooked anything, Burd?"

"Don't try to hang it on me!" exclaimed his chum. "I never claimed
to know a thing about radio. You were the Big Noise when we put the
contraption together."

"Aw, you! Where did we put the things left over?"

"There he goes!" exclaimed the confirmed joker. "He's like the fellow
who took the automobile apart to fix it and had a bushel of parts left
over when he was done. He doesn't know----"

"Beat it out of here," roared Darry, "and find that box we put the
stuff into. _You_ know."

Dr. Stanley came up to the radio room while Burd was searching for the
rubbish box. The clergyman spoke cheerfully, but he looked very grave.

"Is there any likelihood of our being able to send out a call for
assistance, Jessie?" he asked, quietly.

"I don't see how we can, Doctor Stanley, until we fix this radio set.
We can't get any spark. We have to be able to get a spark to send a
message. The message will be stumbling enough, I am afraid, even if
we fix the thing, for none of us understands Morse very well. Unless
Darry----"

"Don't look to me for help," declared the collegian. "I haven't sent a
message since we put the yacht in commission. We had a fellow aboard
here until the other day who knew something about wireless and he was
the operator. Not me."

"Amy and I have a code book with the alphabet in it," said Jessie
slowly. "I think if somebody read the dots and dashes to me I could
send a short message. But there is something wrong with this circuit."

Just then Burd Alling came back. He brought with him a big corrugated
cardboard container. In that the various parts of the radio outfit had
been packed.

"What do you think about it?" he asked. "There is something here that
I never saw before. See this jigamarig, Jess? Think it belongs on the
contraption?"

"Oh!" cried Jessie, eagerly, pouncing on the small object that Burd
held out to her. "I know what that is."

"Then you beat me. I don't," declared Burd.

"Let's see what else there is," said Darry, diving into the box. "I
left you to get out the parts, Burd; you know I did."

"Oh, splash!" exclaimed his friend. "We might as well admit that we
don't know as much about radio as these girls. They leave us lashed to
the post."

But Jessie and Amy did not even feel what at another time Amy would
have called "augmented ego." The occasion was too serious.

The day was passing into evening, and a very solemn evening it was. The
wind whined through the strands of the wire rigging. The waves knocked
the yacht about. The passengers all felt weary and forlorn.

The two girl chums felt the situation less acutely than anybody else,
perhaps, because they were so busy. That radio had to be repaired.
That is what Jessie told Amy, and Amy agreed. The safety of the whole
yacht's company seemed dependent upon what the two radio girls could do.