"It's the Norwoods' party, you know," Amy said, for Jessie had "shut up
as tight as a clam." "Mrs. Norwood has taken a bungalow there."

"On Station Island--Hackle Island it used to be called?" Sally cried.

"That is the place. And Darry will take us all on the _Marigold_. So, I
guess----"

"We might have known it!" exclaimed Belle, angrily. "The Norwoods or
some of that Roselawn crowd would tag along if we planned something
exclusive."

But Amy only laughed at this. "You don't own that island, do you?
Remember what little Hen Haney said about owning an island? Well,
Hackle, or Station Island, is the one she meant. She owns a big slice
of it."

"I don't believe it!" cried Belle.

"She does. My father says so. And he and Mr. Norwood are going to get
it for her."

"They will have a fine time doing that," sneered Belle. "Why, _my_
father has a claim upon all the middle of the island, and he is going
to make his claim good. That nasty little freckle-faced young one from
Dogtown will never get a foot of Hackle Island--you see!"

Amy shrugged her shoulders as she and Jessie took seats at a table. She
knew how to aggravate Belle Ringold, and she sometimes rather impishly
enjoyed bothering the proud girl.

"And there's one thing," went on Belle, with emphasis, so exasperated
that she did not see Nick, the clerk, who was waiting for her order, "I
wouldn't go away for the summer unless we went to a really fashionable
hotel. No, indeed! Cottagers at seaside places are always of such a
common sort!"

Amy only laughed. Jessie remained silent. It really did trouble her to
have these controversies with Belle. It was not nice and she did not
feel right after they were over.

"There is something wrong with us, as well as with Belle," Jessie said
once to Amy, on this topic.

"I'd like to know what's wrong with us?" her chum demanded. "I like
that!"

"When we squabble with Belle and Sally we make ourselves just as common
as they are."

"Tut, tut! Likewise 'go to,' whatever that means," laughed Amy Drew.
"Why, child, if we did not keep up our end of any controversy that
those girls start they would walk all over us."

However, on this occasion, and at Jessie's earnest desire, Amy hastened
the eating of her George Washington sundae and the two friends got out
of the shop before Darry and Burd Alling appeared in the car.

"What's the matter?" asked Amy's brother, when the car stopped before
the Dainties Shop and he saw his sister and Jessie waiting. "Spent all
your money and waiting for us to take you in and treat you?"

"We had ours," Jessie replied promptly, getting into the tonneau.

"Yes, indeed. 'Home, James!'" Amy added, following her chum.

"And so we are to be deprived of our needed nourishment because you
piggy-wiggies have had enough?" demanded Burd Alling, with serious
objection. "I--guess--not! Come along, Darry," and he hopped out of the
car.

"You'd better look ahead before you leap," giggled Amy.

"What's that?" asked Darry, hesitating and looking at his sister
curiously.

"What's up her sleeve?" demanded Burd, with suspicion.

"You can treat Belle and Sally instead of Jessie and me, if you go in,"
said Amy.

"Oh, my aunt!" exclaimed Burd, and sprang into the automobile again.
"Drive on, Darrington! If you love me take me away before those girls
get their hooks in me."

"Don't mind about you," growled Darrington, starting the car. "I will
look out for myself, if you please. I hope I never meet up with those
two girls again."

At that his sister went off into uncontrollable laughter.