"But what is the matter? Has Mr. Blair been hurt?"

"It is Mrs. Blair. She fell downstairs and has hurt herself severely.
Did it not ten minutes after Bertha went out. Broke her leg. She will
be in bed for weeks. I understand that they were planning to go away
for the summer," said Mark, sympathetically. "But that cannot be now.
At least, I suppose Bertha will have to remain to take care of her
aunt."

"Sh! Don't tell little Hen," begged Amy Drew, when she heard this. "The
child will be heartbroken. Without Bertha and Mrs. Blair Hennie can't
go to her island."

Jessie made no audible reply to this. And she certainly had no
intention of telling Henrietta the very worst. She discussed the
situation with Momsy, and before Daddy Norwood returned from town that
afternoon mother and daughter had just about perfected a very nice plan
for little Henrietta.

"Well, you are to go to Hackle Island, Momsy," Mr. Norwood said, when
he first came in. "I have signed the agreement. You can send the people
down to make the house ready to-morrow, if you like. I understand there
will not be much to do about the place. We can all go by the end of the
week."

"You take my breath away--as usual," laughed Jessie's mother. "You are
always so prompt, Robert."

"And you will have a house full of company, I suppose?" he rejoined,
but looking at Jessie with a smile.

"We are going to have one guest you didn't expect, Daddy," rejoined his
daughter. She told him swiftly of what had happened at the Blair home
in Stratfordtown. "So that spoils it all for little Henrietta, you see,
Daddy, if we don't take her. And you know she is crazy to see what she
calls her island."

"Sure that she won't make you and Momsy crazy, Jess?" he asked, his
eyes twinkling. "That child is as lively as an eel and as noisy as a
steam-roller."

"How can you say such things, Daddy?" cried Jessie, shaking a reproving
head. "We have agreed to take her if you and the Blairs are willing.
And Momsy and I will try to teach her the things she'll need to know."

"M-mm. Well, perhaps you will have success. You have done pretty well
with me," laughed Mr. Norwood, who made believe that his wife and
daughter had "brought him up by hand." "Being guided in any way will be
a novel experience for little Hen, that is sure."

He agreed so well with his wife's and Jessie's plans, however, that he
called Mr. Blair up that evening and proposed to keep little Henrietta
and take her to Hackle, or Station, Island, while Mrs. Blair was
confined to her house. As Jessie's father, along with Mr. Drew, had
taken legal charge of Henrietta's affairs for the time being, it was
right that the orphan child should be in Mrs. Norwood's care.

"There is an almost certain chance the child is going to be very
wealthy," Mr. Norwood said seriously, to Jessie's mother. "Her
education and improvement cannot begin too soon. She is as wild as a
hawk and she needs encouragement and government both."

Henrietta took quite as a matter of course every change that came to
her. She had no particular affection for Mrs. Blair, for she had not
known her long enough. She was delighted to go to "her island" with
Jessie and her parents. As long as she got there and could survey her
domain, little Henrietta was bound to be satisfied. But Jessie knew she
would have to restrain the child in her desire to invite everybody she
knew and liked to come to the island while she was there.

The Norwood family had not even discussed how they were to travel
to the island--by what route--when Amy Drew bounded in. Jessie and
Henrietta were upstairs in Jessie's room listening to the bedtime
story. A little girl not much older than Henrietta was telling the
story, and Henrietta thought that was quite wonderful.

"I know that Bertha and you other big girls sing into the radio," the
freckle-faced child said, when it was over. "Do you suppose Mr. Blair
would let me recite into it like that?"

"What would you say?" asked Amy, laughing as her chum and the smaller
girl removed their earphones.

"Why--why," said Henrietta eagerly, "I would tell stories, too. Spotted
Snake, the Witch, used to tell stories to Billy Foley and the other
Dogtown kids to keep them quiet. And they liked 'em."

"We'll see about that when we come back from your island, Henrietta,"
said Jessie, smiling.