"I shouldn't be surprised," panted Jessie. "But don't talk about it,
Amy."

The rain swept over and past the small boat in such heavy sheets that
finally the girls could scarcely see the shore at all. Amy found
something to do--and something of importance. Although not much water
slopped into the boat over the sides, the rain itself began to fill the
bottom. The water was soon ankle deep.

"Bail it! Bail it!" shouted Nell.

"Oh! is that what the tin dipper is for?" gasped Amy. "I--I thought it
was to drink out of."

Afterward "Amy's drinking cup" made a joke, but just then nobody
laughed at the girl's mistake. She set to work with vigor to bail out
the boat, and kept it up "for hours and hours" she declared, though the
others insisted it was "minutes and minutes."

At last they reached the strand.

One of the bathing house men ran out to help pull the bow of the boat
up on the sands.

"Run along up to the hotel!" he cried. "There is no good shelter down
here for you."

The moment they could do so the three girls leaped ashore. Thus
relieved of their weight, the boat was the more easily dragged out of
the reach of the waves, which now began to roll in madly. The lightning
increased in its intensity, the thunder reverberated from the bluff.
The tempest was at its height when they hastened to mount the winding
wooden stair.

"Oh, my blister! Oh, my blister!" moaned Nell, as she climbed upward.

"Everything I've got on sticks to me like a twin sister," declared Amy
Drew. "Oh, dear! How shall we ever get home in these soaked rags?"

"We must go to the hotel," cried Jessie. "Come on."

She was the first to reach the top of the stairs. There was a garden
and lawn to cross to reach the veranda. As the rain was beating in from
this direction none of the hotel guests was on this side of the house.
The three wet girls ran as hard as they could for shelter.

Just as Jessie, leading the trio, came up the Veranda steps, she heard
a loud and harsh voice exclaim:

"Well of all things! I'd like to know what you think you are doing
here? You have no business at this hotel. Go away!"

Jessie almost stopped, and Amy and Nell ran into her.

"Oh, do go on!" cried Amy. "Let us get inside somewhere----"

"Well, I should say _not_!" broke out the harsh voice again, and the
three Roselawn girls beheld Belle Ringold and Sally Moon confronting
them on the piazza. "Just look at what wants to get into the hotel,
Sally! Did you ever?"

"They look like beggars," laughed Sally. "The manager would give them
marching orders in a hurry, I guess."

"Do let us in out of the rain," Jessie said faintly. She did not know
but perhaps the hotel people would object to strangers coming inside.
But Amy demanded:

"What do you think you have to say about it, Belle Ringold? Is this
something more that you or your folks own? Do go along, Belle, and let
us pass."

"Not much; you won't come in here!" declared Belle, setting herself
squarely in their way. "No, you don't! That door's locked, anyway. It
belongs to Mrs. Olliver's private suite--Mrs. Purdy Olliver, of New
York. I am sure she won't want you bedrabbled objects hanging around
her windows."

"Go around to the kitchen door," said Sally Moon, laughing. "That is
where you look as though you belonged."

"Oh, that's good, Sally!" cried Belle. "Ex-act-ly! The kitchen door!"

At that moment another flash of lightning and burst of thunder made the
two unpleasant girls from New Melford cringe and shriek aloud. They
backed against the closed door Belle had mentioned as being the wealthy
Mrs. Olliver's private entrance.

Amy and Nell screamed, too, and the three wet girls clung together for
a moment. The rain came with a rush into the open porch, and if they
could be more saturated than they were, this blast of rain would have
done it.