XII

A DOUBLE RACE


Amy Drew scoffed at the thought of Belle Ringold's tale of trouble for
the "bungalowites" being true.

"She is always hatching up something unpleasant," she told the neighbor
who had spoken of Mr. Ringold's claim to a part of Station Island. "We
know her. She comes from our town."

But little Henrietta continued to tell anybody who would listen that
_she_ owned a part of the island and expected to take possession of the
golf links almost any day. The funny little thing, however, was very
generous in inviting people to remain on "her island," no matter what
happened.

"Something has got to be done about that child," said Jessie, sighing.
"I can't control her. She does say the most awful things. She has no
manners at all!"

"He, he," chuckled Amy. "Hen was built without any controller. I
wouldn't worry about her, Jess. She'll come out all right."

"I hope she comes out of the water all right," murmured her chum,
starting again after the very lively little girl who occasionally made
dashes for the surf as though she proposed to go right out to sea.

But for one person Henrietta had some concern. That was Mrs. Norwood.
She thought Jessie's mother was a most wonderful person. And when Mrs.
Norwood had a chair and umbrella brought to the sands and sat down
within sight of Henrietta, the older girls had some opportunity of
having a little amusement with the college boys.

"Come on," Darry Drew said. "This staying inshore is no fun. Beat you
to the raft, girls, and give you ten yards start."

"O-oh! You can't!" cried his sister, dashing at once for the sea.

"Hold on! Hold on!" commanded Darry. "I don't believe you even know how
long ten yards is. Both you girls go in and stand even with that pile
yonder. You are headed for the raft. You see the life saver beyond it,
I hope?"

Amy made a face at him, settled her bathing cap more firmly, and looked
at Jessie.

"Ready, Jess?" she asked.

"We'll just beat them good," declared her chum. "They always think they
can do things so much better than us girls."

"'We' girls," corrected Amy, giggling.

"'We' or 'us'--it doesn't so much matter, as long as we win the race,"
said Jessie.

"All ready out there?" demanded Darry.

"They're edging out farther," observed Burd Alling. "It wouldn't matter
if you gave them a mile start; they'd take more if they could. Give 'em
an inch and they'll take an ell," he quoted.

"You don't know what an ell is," scoffed his friend.

"It's something you put on a house after you think you've got all the
rooms you'll ever need. I know," declared Burd, grinning.

"Come on out!" retorted Darry. "Cut the repartee. You have got to swim
your little best, for those two girls are no slow-pokes."

"You've said something," agreed Burd. "Shoot! I am ready, Gridley."

"Huh!" exclaimed his chum. "You have even forgotten your Spanish War
history."

"Shucks! They change history so fast now you don't more than learn
one phase than you have to forget it and learn some other fellow's
'hindsight' of important events. The only way to get history straight,"
declared the philosophical Burd, "is to be Johnny-on-the-spot and see
things happen."

"Now!" shouted Darry to the girls.

The four splashed in, the girls starting with a breast stroke and the
boys having to run for some distance until the sea was deep enough to
enable them to swim. The water beyond the ruffle of surf was almost
calm. At least, the waves did not break, but heaved in, in smooth
rollers. As Amy had said: The sea was taking deep-breathing exercises.