XIV

SOMETHING NEW IN RADIO


The Stanleys arrived at Station Island the next day, the doctor having
arranged for a substitute preacher at the Roselawn Church for two
Sundays. The bungalow they had arranged to occupy was one of the colony
not far from the big house the Norwoods and their party were staying in.

Darry and Burd began to spend a good deal of their time on the yacht
after that first day. Amy accused her brother of being afraid of a
flank attack by Belle Ringold and Sally Moon, and he admitted that he
had hoped to escape those two "troublesome kids" when he came to the
island.

"I came here as the guest of little Hen Haney," he declared soberly.
"And I don't wish to be annoyed by any girls older than she is."

But he did not say this within Henrietta's hearing. The little girl
went around with a very long face indeed. She seemed to think that she
was going to lose her island. Even Nell Stanley, who was a general
comforter at most times, could not alleviate little Henrietta's woe.

With the coming of the Stanleys, however, Henrietta became less of a
trial to Jessie. For Sally Stanley was just about Henrietta's age and
the two children got along splendidly together.

Bob and Fred, those lively and ingenious youngsters, made their own
friends among the boys of the bungalow colony. The three girls from
Roselawn--Jessie, Amy, and Nell--found plenty to do and enjoyed
themselves thoroughly during the next few days. Being all interested in
radio they naturally spent sometime at Jessie's set. But unfortunately
it did not work as well here as it had at home.

"And I do not know why," Jessie ruminated. "I have been studying up
about it and the more I read the less I seem to know. There are so many
different opinions about how an amateur set should be built. Do you
know, sometimes I feel as though I should have an entirely different
kind of outfit. There is a new super-regenerative circuit that is being
talked about."

"But some people say it is not practicable for amateurs," broke in
Nell. "I've read so, anyway."

"I should like to talk with some professional--some radio expert--about
that," Jessie confessed. "If I had thought before we left home I would
have spoken to Mr. Blair."

"You'll have to wait until you get back, then," said Amy promptly.

"Why?" cried Nell suddenly. "There must be experts over at that
Government station."

"That is so," agreed Jessie, thoughtfully. "Do you suppose they
would----"

"Let's go and see," urged Nell. "I'm crazy to see the inside of that
station, anyway."

"It's wireless--like the little outfit aboard the _Marigold_," Amy
suggested.

"But so much bigger," Jessie chimed in eagerly. "If they admit
visitors, let's go."

Mr. Norwood found out about that particular point for the girls and
reported that if they went over to the station in the late afternoon
the operator on duty would be glad to show them "the works" and give
them all the information in his power.

The three friends went alone, for the collegians were off fishing that
day on the _Marigold_. They left the little girls in Mrs. Norwood's
care and slipped away about four o'clock and walked to the station,
which was some distance from the bungalow colony. They had to climb the
stairs in the old shaft of the lighthouse to the wireless room. The
room was half darkened and they heard the snapping of the spark, and
even saw the faint blue flash of it when they came to the door.

The operator, with his head harness on, was busy at his set. Jessie,
at least, had spent some time trying to learn the Morse code since
talking the matter over with Darry on the yacht. But although the
signals the operator received were in dots and dashes, she could not
understand a single thing.

"I am afraid it will take us a long time to learn," she said to Amy,
sighing. "We shall have to buy a regular telegraph set and learn in
that way."

"I wish you wouldn't talk about learning anything!" cried her chum.
"Vacation is slipping right away from us."