II

A PUZZLING QUESTION


Little Henrietta Haney, with her green parasol and her freckles, came
stumbling out of the low phaeton, so eager to tell Jessie the news that
excited her that she could scarcely make herself understood at all. She
fairly stuttered.

"I'm rich! I got an island and everything!" she crowed, over and over
again. Then she saw Amy Drew's delighted countenance and she added:
"Don't you laugh, Miss Amy, or I won't let you go to my island at all.
And there's radio there."

"For pity's sake, Henrietta!" cried Jessie. "Where is this island?"

"Where would it be? Out in the water, of course. There's water all
around it," declared the freckle-faced child in vigorous language.
"Don't you s'pose I know where an island ought to be?"

At that Amy Drew burst into laughter. In fact, Jessie Norwood's chum
found it very difficult on most occasions to be sober when there was
any possibility of seeing an occasion for laughter. She found amusement
in almost everything that happened.

But that made her no less helpful to Jessie when the latter had gained
her first interest in radio telephony. Whatever these two Roselawn
girls did, they did together. If Jessie planned to establish a radio
set, Amy Drew was bound to assist in the actual stringing of the
antenna and in the other work connected therewith. They always worked
hand in hand.

In the first volume of this series, entitled "The Radio Girls of
Roselawn," the chums and their friends fell in with a wealth of
adventures, and one of the most interesting of those adventures was
connected with little Henrietta Haney, whom Amy had just now called
"O-Be-Joyful" Henrietta.

The more fortunate girls had been able to assist Henrietta, and finally
had found her cousin, Bertha Blair, with whom little Henrietta now
lived. By the aid of radio telephony, too, Jessie and Amy and their
friends were able to help in several charitable causes, including that
of the building of the new hospital.

In the second volume, "The Radio Girls on the Program," the friends
had the chance to speak and sing at the Stratfordtown broadcasting
station. It was an opportunity toward which they had long looked
forward, and that exciting day they were not likely soon to forget.

A week had passed, and during that time Jessie knew that little
Henrietta had been taken to Stratfordtown by her Cousin Bertha, where
they were to live with Bertha's uncle, who was the superintendent of
the Stratford Electric Company's sending station. The appearance of
the wildly excited little girl here in Roselawn on this occasion was,
therefore, a surprise.

Jessie Norwood seized hold of Henrietta by the shoulders and halted her
wild career of dancing. She looked at Montmorency Shannon accusingly
and asked:

"Do you know what she is talking about?"

"Sure, I do."

"Well, what does she mean?"

"She's been talking like that ever since I picked her up. This is
Cabbage-head Tony's pony. You know, he sells vegetables down on the
edge of town. Spotted Snake----"

"Don't call Henrietta that!" cried Jessie, reprovingly.

"Well, she gave the name to herself when she played being a witch,"
declared the Shannon boy defensively. "Anyway, Hen came down to Dogtown
last evening and hired me to drive her over here this morning."

"And when I get some of my money that's coming to me with that island,"
broke in Henrietta, "I'll buy Montmorency an automobile to drive me
around in. This old pony is too slow--a lot too slow!"

"Listen to that!" crowed Amy, in delight.

"But do tell us about the island, child," urged Nell Stanley, likewise
interested.

"A man came to Cousin Bertha's house, where we live with her uncle.
_His_ name is Blair, too; it isn't Haney. Well, this man said: 'Are you
Padriac Haney's little girl?' And I told him yes, that I wasn't grown
up yet like Bertha. And so he asked a lot of questions of Mr. Blair.
They was questions about my father and where he was married to my
mother, and where I was born, and all that."