XX

SOMETHING SERIOUS


The three girls did not sleep much after that. The grumbling,
stuttering notes of the foot-power horn seemed to fill all the air
about the _Marigold_. Darry told them at breakfast that he used this
old-fashioned horn on the yacht because it took too much steam if they
used the regular horn.

"This is a great old tub," complained Burd, who had spent the previous
hour at the device. "She makes only steam enough to blow the horn when
you stop the engines. Great! Great!"

"You'd kick if you were going to be hung," observed his chum.

"Might as well be hung as sentenced to the treadmill. I suppose I have
to go back and step on the tail of that horn after breakfast?"

"You'll take your turn if the fog does not lift."

"What could be sweeter!" grumbled Burd, and fell to on the viands
before him with a just appreciation of the time vouchsafed him for the
meal. Burd's appetite never failed.

The fog, however, lifted. But it was a gray day and the girls looked
upon the vessels which appeared out of the mist about them with an
interest which was half fearful.

"Suppose one of those _had_ run into us?" suggested Jessie. "And there
is a great liner off yonder. Why, if that had bumped us we must have
been sunk----"

"Without trace," finished Amy, briskly. "The old cow's mooing did some
good, I guess, Jess," and she chuckled.

She had told the boys about her chum thinking there must be a cow
aboard in the night, and of course they all teased Jessie a good deal
about it. She laughed with them at herself, however. Jessie Norwood was
no spoil-sport.

The _Marigold_ steamed into the east all that afternoon. But the
weather did not improve. The hopes of a fair trip were gradually
dissipated, and even the skipper looked about the horizon and shook his
head.

"Seems as though there was plenty of wind coming, Mr. Darrington," he
said to the owner of the yacht. "If these friends of yours are easily
made sea-sick, we'd better get into shelter somewhere."

"Where'll we go?" demanded Darry. "Here we are off Montauk."

"With the direction the wind is going to blow when she gets going, we'd
better run for the New Harbor at Block Island and get in through the
breech there. It'll be calm as a millpond, once we're inside."

When Darry asked the others, however, the consensus of opinion was that
they keep on for Boston.

"Can't we take the inside passage--go through the Cape Cod Canal?"
asked Dr. Stanley. "That should eliminate all danger."

"Oh, there's no danger," Darry said. "The yacht is as seaworthy as can
be. But I don't want any of you to be uncomfortable."

"I'm a good sailor," declared Nell.

"You know Jess and I are used to the water," Amy hastened to say. "Let
us go on, Darry."

But the wind sprang up a little later and began to blow fitfully. The
skipper considered it safer to keep well out to sea. Inshore waters are
often dangerous even for a craft of as light draught as the _Marigold_.

The crowd sat on deck, keeping as much as possible in the shelter of
the deckhouse, and were just as jolly as though there was no such thing
on the whole ocean as a storm. Dr. Stanley told them several of his
funny stories, and amused the young folks immensely.

In the midst of the general hilarity Nell went below for something.
She was gone for some minutes and Jessie, at least, began to wonder
where she was when she saw Nell's hand beckoning to her from an open
stateroom window. Jessie got up and moved toward the place, wondering
what the doctor's daughter had discovered that so excited her.

"What is it, Nell?" Jess whispered.

"Come down here--do!" exclaimed the other girl, her tone half muffled.