X

ISLAND ADVENTURES


The _Marigold_ loafed along within sight of the beaches that evening
and the girls and their friends reclined in the deck-chairs and watched
the parti-colored electric lights that wreathed the shore-front. Jessie
was careful to keep Henrietta near by. She began to realize that
looking after the freckle-faced little girl was going to be something
of a trial.

Henrietta finally grew sleepy and Jessie and Amy took her below,
helped her undress, and tucked her into a berth. The Roselawn girls'
mothers were much amused by this. Their daughters had taken a task upon
themselves that would, as Mrs. Norwood said, teach them something.

"And it will not hurt them," Mrs. Drew agreed, with an answering smile.
"Amy, especially, needs to know what 'duty' means."

"Anyway, we'll know where she is while she is asleep," Jessie said to
her chum, as they left the little girl.

"If she isn't a somnambulist," chuckled Amy. "We forgot to ask Mrs.
Foley or Bertha that."

The ground swell lulled the girls to sleep that night, and even
Henrietta did not awake until the first breakfast call in the morning.
Through the port-light Jessie and Amy saw Burd Alling "bursting his
cheeks with sound" as he essayed the changes on the key-bugle.

The _Marigold_ was slipping along the coast easily, with the northern
end of Station Island already in sight. The castlelike hotel sprawled
all over the headland, but the widest bathing beach was just below
it. Next were the premises of the Hackle Island Gold Club, with its
pastures, shrubberies, and several water-holes. It was to a part of
these enclosed premises that Mr. Norwood said little Henrietta Haney
was laying claim.

"And I believe she will get it in time. Most of the land on which those
summer houses beyond the golf course stand is also within the lines of
the Padriac Haney place."

He explained this to them while they all paced the deck after
breakfast. The yacht was headed in toward the dock near the bungalows,
some of which were very cheaply built and stood upon stilts near the
shore.

The tall gray staff of the abandoned lighthouse was the landmark at the
extreme southern end of the island. The sending and receiving station
of the commercial wireless company was at the lighthouse, and the
party aboard the _Marigold_ could see the very tall antenna connected
therewith.

The yacht landed the party and their baggage about ten o'clock. Mrs.
Norwood's servants were at hand to help, and a decrepit express wagon
belonging to a "native" aided in the transportation of the goods to the
big bungalow which was some rods back from the shore. There were no
automobiles on the island.

"Is this my house?" Henrietta demanded the moment she learned which
dwelling the party of vacationists would occupy.

"It may prove to be your house in the end," Jessie told her.

"When's the end?" was the blunt query. "How long do I have to wait?"

"We can't tell that. My mother has the house for the summer. She has
hired it for us all to live in."

"Who does she pay? Do I get any of the money?" continued the little
girl. "If this island is going to be mine some time, why not now? Why
wait for something that is mine?"

It was very difficult for Jessie and Amy to make her understand the
situation. In fact, she began to feel and express doubts about the
attempt that was being made to discover and settle the legal phases of
the Padriac Haney estate.

"If I don't get my money and my island pretty soon somebody else will
get it instead," was the little girl's confident statement.

"Oh, Jess!" exclaimed Amy under her breath, "suppose that should be so.
You know Belle Ringold's father is trying to prove his title to the
same property."

"Hush!" said Jessie. "Don't let little Hen hear about that. She is
getting hard to manage as it is. Henrietta! Where are you going now?"
she called after the little girl.