III

“_My grandfather, he, at the age of eighty-three,
One day in May was taken ill and died,
And after he was dead, the will, of course, was read,
By a lawyer, as we all stood by his side._”

POPULAR SONG.


LARRY MURPHY awoke and sat up in bed; the sun was streaming in through
the one small window of Mrs. McGonagle’s third story room, and the peal
of the bell sounded solemnly in his ears. Through the window could be
seen the church tower, pointing like a gigantic finger heavenward; the
hands of the clock were slowly lifting as though to screen its face
from the glare of the sun. Larry stretched himself lazily.

“Solemn High Mass,” yawned he.

A second young man lay upon a cot opposite, propped up with a pillow
and reading a pink sporting paper. He glanced up.

“That’s the one,” remarked he, “that the property holders come together
at, ain’t it? Ye kin see every plug hat in the parish on Second Street
at half past ten on Sunday morning; but I’ll bet five cases to one
that the collection ain’t no heavier than it is at the one what the
dump-cart drivers goes to.”

Young Murphy grinned. “Ye’d better not say too much about that when yer
on the street,” advised he. “Some o’ the Turks around here’s dead sore
on youse since youse led the march at the ‘Sons o’ Derry’s Ball,’ an’
they’ll cop youse a sly one when yer not next.”

“Don’t lose any sleep over that,” said the other. “Somebody’ll get hurt
if they run up against me, and that’s no dream. I don’t have to ask no
gang o’ Mocaraws if I kin go to a ball; ain’t that right?”

Murphy nodded the subject aside.

“Anything new?” he inquired, looking at the paper which his friend had
thrown upon the bare floor.

“Nothin’ much, ’cept that Jack Slattery got the life lammed out o’ him
in his twenty round job with McCook’s ‘Pidgeon.’ There’s a good t’ing
gone wrong! I know the time when Slattery went right down the line and
give ’em all a go; but drink got the best o’ him, and now he’s willin’
to take dimes for a hard job agin a big man, where he used to stan’ pat
for dollars to put out a dub.”

“Rum’s a tough game to go up against,” commented Larry. “Say,” after a
pause, “how’s yer trip South comin’ up?”

“Big. Me manager’s got me go’s at New Orleans, Galveston an’ half a
dozen other burgs; an’ if I holds up me end, he’ll stack me against
the champion fer as many plunks as youse kin hold in yer hat. That’ll
be a great graft; eh, Larry? I’ll be a main squeeze meself then, and
sportin’ guys’ll come out from under their hats as soon as they gits
their eyes on me!” And Jimmie Larkin twisted himself around on his
elbow and waved one thick, hairy arm delightedly.

“But, talkin’ about fight,” resumed he, “puts me in mind o’ the mix up
at the club last night. Mart Kelly didn’t do a t’ing but open up Hogan
wit’ a jack.”

Murphy sneered. “Kelly’s gittin’ to be a reg’lar slugger,” said he.
“What was the matter?”

“Oh, he was a-shootin’ off his mouth like he always does. He said his
old man was the best councilman the ward ever had; Hogan was about half
drunk, and he said he was a stiff, and had trun down the party. Then
they clinched and Kelly started to hammer him.”

All was now quiet in the street except for the rattle of an occasional
wagon, and the faint wheeze of a broken accordion being played down
the alley. A barb of yellow sunlight shot through the window and fell
upon a bright lithograph of the Virgin which was tacked upon the wall
near Larry’s bed. He had bought this years before and he had always
kept it because he thought it looked like his dead mother. Across
the room was a large photograph of Larkin in ring costume, as he had
appeared just previous to his desperate battle with the champion of the
sixth ward; and under this again was pasted a policy slip with three
numbers underscored, commemorative of the day that same gentleman had
struck the “Hard Luck Row,” at Levitsky’s policy shop, and gotten his
name down upon the books of the tenth police district as a “drunk and
disorderly.”

“I wonder,” said Larry, his eyes dwelling soberly upon the Jewish face
of the Virgin, “how the old one is?”

“I saw Rosie O’Hara stan’in’ in the door last night,” returned Jimmie,
“an’ she said that he was as good as gone.”