VII

“_Oh they laid him away,
On one bleak Winter day,
An’ the sun he’ll never see more._”

BALLADS OF BACK STREETS.


THURSDAY morning broke clear, and before the factory whistles had done
blowing, O’Connor and Roddy Ferguson had carried in the coffin, the
great brass candelabra, and all the other things that went to make
up O’Connor’s first-class funeral. O’Connor’s arrival was followed
promptly by that of old Mrs. Sweeney, and under their practised hands
things progressed rapidly; for when the clock of St. Michael’s struck
the hour of nine, and then began tolling sadly, all was ready and the
doors thrown open.

Hacks from neighbouring livery stables began arriving and lined up at
the curb, and the friends of the departed began to gather. The women
went in, but the men, for the most part, collected upon the sidewalk.
Frowsy-haired women stood in groups at the mouth of each alley in the
block, blue faced and shivering, but anxious to miss nothing. A crowd
of young men were smoking and laughing near Clancy’s coal box; the
drivers of the hacks, in shabby livery coats and grotesque high hats,
called to each other from their high seats.

It wanted but a half hour of the time when the cortège was to move when
Goose McGonagle pushed his way through the people who were crowding
in at the front door; he had a band of crape about his arm and was
hatless. Approaching the group at Clancy’s, he said hurriedly:

“I’m goin’ to be a pall bearer, fellas, and Larry wants five o’ youse
to help. Talk quick!”

Nolan and McGlory promptly volunteered.

“That makes three,” said Goose. “Won’t youse help to carry him, Larkin?”

“Try to get somebody else,” begged Jimmie. And with a nod of his head
toward the smoky grey tower from which came the doleful strokes of the
bell, he added: “I don’t go there, ye know; an’ it might make talk
about Larry, see? Here’s Casey an’ Mike McCarty comin’ up; give ’em a
brace.”

Danny Casey who worked for Contractor McGlory, and Mike McCarty,
who drove a truck for Shannon, the teamster, and was considered the
best-dressed young man in the ward, were promptly “braced” and gave
consent.

“I’ll git another one and give Ferguson yer names,” said Goose, “an’
he’ll fix youse up with gloves and crape for yer skypieces.”

And McGonagle plunged into the house with the crowd. The prospective
pall-bearers resumed their comments upon the passing throng; a pastime
at which they had been interrupted.

“Here comes Kelly and his wife,” remarked McGlory.

“With Mart pluggin’ along behind. And he’s half lit up, too.”

“Good mornin’, Mr. McGlory,” saluted Casey to his employer.

“How are yez, Danny?” answered the contractor as he went by with his
wife. “Good mornin’ gintlemen.”

“Gee!” whispered Casey, “ain’t the old lady a swell!”

“Git onto Clancy’s stove-pipe lid! Ain’t it a bird!”

“It was made during the siege o’ Limerick,” said McCarty, “an’ Clancy’s
wore it at every funeral an’ at every A. O. H. procession since then.”

“Hello, Schwartz; goin’ to the funeral?”

“Say,” said McGlory, “don’t Rosie O’Hara look nice in black? Look at
the two old ones givin’ their wipes a shower bath! Say, Larkin, there’s
Rosie wavin’ her hand, on the quiet; she wants youse.”

Her aunts had gone in, but Rosie paused upon the step, and Jimmie was
at her side in a moment.

“Who are ye goin’ to walk with?” said she.

“With youse, if ye’ll let me!” eagerly.

Rosie looked pleased. “Git our names down,” said she, “so’s we’ll be
called out.”

She entered the house just as Roddy Ferguson came out, his hands full
of black cotton gloves and streamers of crape.