THE door bell of Larry’s home at the end of Murphy’s Court kept up an
almost constant ringing next morning, and old Mrs. Coogan’s breath grew
short through answering the calls.

First it was McGonagle and Larkin, dressed in their best, with beaming
faces and movements of suppressed excitement.

“Everyt’ing’s all to the velvet,” said Goose airily. “The girls have
been up and dressed since five o’clock, and Father Dawson’ll do his
turn at eleven, sharp.”

“Say, Larry,” put in Jimmie, “one bridesmaid’s goin’ to do for both;
who d’youse t’ink it is?”

“I don’t know,” replied Larry.

“It’s Maggie Dwyer,” said Jimmie. “Say, there’s a girl for yer life!
She’s got ’em all tied hand an’ foot.”

“If there was no Annie,” remarked Goose, “and I had the drag with
Maggie that youse have, why her name’d be McGonagle in short order,
le’me tell ye that.”

“G’way,” said Larry. “Quit yer stringin’.”

“This is on the level,” insisted McGonagle. “I’ve heard it talked about
for years. Everybody in the ward knowed that she wanted ye,--everybody
but yerself. But, say, youse seemed so dead leary about the t’ing that
nobody had the nerve to say anyt’ing to youse.”

After the two young men departed, a perfect stream of reporters began
to call, all anxious to get Larry’s views upon the political situation;
and when this had subsided, Mason and Kerrigan came in, to talk over
yesterday and confer about to-morrow.

“Did youse see McQuirk since yesterday?” asked Larry, after some time
spent in this fashion.

“No,” answered Kerrigan, “but I received a note from him late last
night, asking me to call upon him this afternoon.”

Larry nodded. “I was at his house when he wrote it,” said he. “Youse
don’t need to worry any about him; he’s right in line. He kin carry the
ward, with youse on the ticket, hands down. And that’s McQuirk’s game,
every time. As long as he’s on the side that wins he can make good, ye
know, and any time they need the ward in a deal they have to come to
him with the money.”

“Owen Dwyer seems to think,” said Mason, “that the election is only a
matter of the size of Kerrigan’s majority.”

“That’s right,” said Larry. “In this ward, and in all the others for
that matter, the fightin’s done at the primaries; the guy what’s
named in the regular way by the party what runs the ward, has got the
election cinched.”

When he and Mason were ready to go, Kerrigan said:

“I am glad that Nolan and Ferguson came out of their matter all right.
I know Cullen, one of the doctors at St. Mary’s, and he told me that
Mart Kelly’s condition, while painful, is not necessarily serious.”

“O’Connor an’ Gartenheim talked to McQuirk,” said Larry; “and McQuirk
squared it all right at the front office. They had to give bail but the
case’ll never come to trial, because Jim Kelly won’t push it; he knows
what Mart was done up for, and he dasn’t.”

“McGonagle tells me that things are all O. K. in his matter,” remarked
Kerrigan, as they stood upon the steps, Larry in the doorway. “I’ll be
on hand promptly at noon to attend to my end of it.”

Larry closed the door after they had departed and returned to the
sitting room. He was glad that matters political had turned out as
they did--but only because it would prevent the loss of Owen Dwyer’s
savings, and thereby please Maggie--outside of that he seemed to have
lost all zest of the battle, all exultation in the victory.

Maggie was in his thoughts, Maggie and Maggie only. Since his talk
with her the morning before, she seemed to have grown nearer to him.
He did not dream that this was caused by a lessening of his sense of
inferiority--by a gradual growth of faith in himself, which had its
conception in the hardly realized fact that he had been the dominant
spirit in a matching of wits which, in result, meant not a little to
her.

He only thought of her kind manner, her smile and invitation to call
again; he only remembered Kerrigan’s half-jesting remark after they
had left the house. And then there were McGonagle’s words; Goose was a
friend of his and would not deceive him. He had said that Maggie was
not indifferent! Could this be so? Had he been so blind, so full of
self-pride as to not see it? Could it be that the aloofness with which
he had long secretly charged her had all been of his own doing? It is
not often that a man wishes himself in the wrong; but that, at this
moment, was Larry’s most earnest desire.