“But, say Nell!” exclaimed Shimph, who had also caught sight of
Brennen, “yous’re with me, ain’t ye?”

“Cert’n’y!” with a lofty air, “I don’t shake me friends that way.”

Re-assured, Shimph walked down the entry; Miss Fogarty beckoned with
the roses, and Brennen, a little abashed, came to her.

“I thought,” said she, “that you couldn’t come to-night. What’s the
matter?--didn’t ye want to take me?”

“Ah, say, Nell! What’s the use--”

“Who did ye come with? Was it Mary Haley?”

“I came alone Nell; ’pon me soul, I did!”

“Eddy Brennen, if I thought you was double-faced enough to--”

“Will ye cheese it! If the gang git next they’ll give me the laugh. I
didn’t bring no lady, Nell. I’m dead broke and couldn’t, see! That’s
the reason I give youse the song and dance about not comin’. When I
take youse out, I want to do the right t’ing.”

Nell’s face grew brighter at this explanation and she said:

“I knowed you wasn’t workin’, didn’t I; and I didn’t expect ye’d blow
your money when ye hadn’t much. You ain’t acquainted with me, I can
see that right here. I ain’t no leg-puller. Got a ticket?”

“No,” answered the youth awkwardly; “I’m waitin’ for a slow. Casey told
me there’d be some goin’ aroun’ after the push got in.”

“For Heaven’s sake!” cried Miss Fogarty: “Don’t hang around the door
waitin’ for a captain; ye’ll git a hard name!” She looked down the
entry where Casey was riffling a packet of tickets his shirt front and
rhinestone studs gleaming under the slanting rays of light. “After I go
in,” continued she, “ask Danny for one; I’ll fix it with him as I pass.”

“But, say Nell! I don’t like--”

“Oh bother!” She started to rejoin her escort, but stopped suddenly.

“Look here,” she cautioned, “don’t you ask me for a single dance; for
if ye do ye’ll get flagged! Rox Shimph sent me these flowers and put up
money for a hack, and he’s me partner for all the dances.”

“Say, are youse goin’ to t’row me down for that--”

“Don’t call him names! He’s run the pair o’ looms next to mine for
three years now, and he’s always acted like a perfect gentleman. You
come to see me steady, Mr. Brennen, but I won’t play Rox for a lobster
even for you.” And with this she once more started away fumbling in her
purse and saying over her shoulder: “Don’t forget to ask Danny for the
ticket.”

Murphy had gone to the street door to speak to a friend while the above
scene was enacting; now he came hurrying back to the “gate” excitedly.

“McGonagle,” exclaimed he, “here comes Nobby Foley and Tim Daily wit’ a
couple o’ skirts. I’ll bet we’ll have the ‘chain gang’ here!”

“Gee,” murmured Goose. “If they cut loose this won’t be a ball, it’ll
be a scrappin’ match. Say d’youse t’ink four cops is enough? Hadn’t we
better git the loot to send two more?”

Murphy looked at him, disdainfully.

“We ain’t a lot o’ kids, are we?” inquired he. “I might be dead wrong
but I t’ink the push kin hold their own with any of ’em. There’s only
one t’ing to do; as soon as they git gay, go in an’ slam ’em; ain’t
that right?”

Foley was short and square-jawed; Daily was big and brawny; and both
carried themselves with much aggressiveness, swaggering into the hall,
their convoys on their arms, with the air of men whose deeds were epic
in the ward.

“That’s a swell one wit’ Foley,” whispered a voice. “Who is she,
Brennen?”

“An old party rammer,” answered Brennen; “an’ she’s the star pivoter of
Whalen’s Academy. Her an’ Bat Mahoney won the prize waltz at the Emmet
Band’s picnic, Decoration Day.”

“Her hair’s bleached,” remarked the other; “an’ that rouge on her face
is the reddest t’ing that ever come down the pike.”

The girl was taller than her escort; she was remarkably handsome,
dressed richly, and held herself in a way that made the women whisper
and the men stare. As they neared the gate, she laughing and showing
her beautiful teeth and flashing her splendid eyes here and there,
McGonagle leaned forward and whispered a few quick words in Murphy’s
ear.