“Then this goes?” said Larry.

“I have sorra another word till say,” answered McGlory.

Larry turned to Kerrigan. “D’youse see anyt’ing?” asked he. “Is it our
finish?”

“Not in a thousand years!” retorted the young attorney. “Find another
man for the running; I’ll go in there an’ do some spell-binding while
you canvass the crowd. If Gartenheim’ll swing in line for O’Connor,
give me the word and I’ll name him.”

They left the McGlorys engaged in a wordy duel, and rushed back into
the main hall. McQuirk, the Kellys and some others of their adherents
were gathered in the doorway leading into the entry; they greeted the
young men with a laugh.

“All to the bad, eh?” sneered Martin. “Yer star nag’s on’y a sellin’
plater.”

“What’d I tell ye, boys,” said McQuirk with the easy assurance of a man
who has won his fight. “There’s only one man. We’ve got the nomination
safe, ye can see that. Now don’t be sore-heads; be nice, clean boys,
an’ ye won’t miss anything.”

Kerrigan hurried into the convention hall without replying; but Larry
turned on the boss like a sullen bear.

“Don’t josh us, McQuirk,” warned he, “because we won’t stand for it.
Youse people ain’t scooped the pot yet, so don’t give yerself the glad
hand.”

“Come, come,” smiled McQuirk, winking at his co-labourers, “don’t take
it so hard. Alex McGlory knows where he stands, and he shows good sense
when he gets out from under.”

“Don’t take me for a mark!” flared Murphy, shoving his head forward,
his jaw protruding, wickedly. “We kin split the shootin’ match wide
open, McQuirk, and afore we let youse git the bulge with Kelly, we’ll
do it. If youse are wise, ye’ll write that on yer cuff.”

He rushed into the convention hall, hot with anger; Nolan, Ferguson and
others of his lieutenants were quickly enlightened as to the state of
affairs, and they passed the word among the others that someone other
than McGlory would be named, at the same time working zealously to
allay the feeling of insecurity that these tidings naturally aroused.

Kerrigan was speaking and the convention was giving him its undivided
attention. The youthful attorney possessed that self-assured poise and
explosive style that captures such gatherings; and then he was easily
the most popular young man in the ward, and his father’s saloon was a
well-known place of resort. Most of the younger men among the delegates
had gone to school with him, and though they, for the most part, were
day-labourers and Johnnie had his name painted upon a ground-glass door
in a down-town office building, he had always kept up old friendships
and clung to old surroundings. As one of his friends said:

“Johnnie’s a high guy, but he’s as common as dirt; he don’t have to
put ice in his hat to keep his head from swellin’. When youse stack up
against him on the street, he’s always got the glad hand for youse, and
a cigar what ain’t workin’.”

It was this democratic quality that made him liked and secured him
attention from the delegates when he arose to deliver the address that
was to give Larry an opportunity to select a new candidate.

These facts came to Larry as he paused for a moment to listen; and like
one inspired he proceeded to consult Ferguson and Nolan.

“Somethin’s gotta be done, and done quick,” said he. “Now look here, if
I go against Gartenheim and ask him to turn in for O’Connor, what’ll he
say?”

“He’ll say, ‘nay, nay, Pauline!’” exclaimed Ferguson.

“Youse’ll queer the game if youse do that,” protested Nolan.

“That’s what I t’ought. And how about O’Connor for Gartenheim?”

“There’s no difference,” said Nolan. “If one was ast to work for the
other he’d git dead wise all of a sudden and t’ink he was bein’ worked
for a good t’ing, and havin’ a con game slung into him from the start!
It won’t do; take it from me.”

“Then I’ve gotta bran’ new graft!” exclaimed Larry starting up the
aisle.

“What is it?” asked Ferguson, following him, his hand upon his sleeve.

“Sit down and hold yer breath; youse’ll be wise in a minute.”