“Hello, Phil,” Kelly greeted the sergeant, “sure an’ it’s glad till see
yez I am; but divil take ye, cud yez not wait till I got through! I had
’em jist where I wanted thim; I wur makin’ votes by the dozen.”

“It’s a slashin’ good game for you,” grumbled the sergeant; “but look
at my end of it! You load ’em up with booze--they’ll fight--my men’ll
pull ’em, an’ I’ll have to hold ’em till Moran kin give’m a hearin’ in
the mornin’. Then what? There’s lots of fellows from my division here,
an’ I must carry that division, Kelly, I must carry it, or lose me job;
that’s just how I stand. An’ if I put me people away in the cooler how
am I goin’ to do any carryin’, eh?”

“Tut, tut, man dear, I must make meself solid wid the gang av young
fellys. Sure a drop av drink’ll do thim no harm, Phil; it’ll make thim
feel good, that’s all.”

The uproar raised by Daily and his friends and Kelly’s display of
ready money had captured both the rowdy and the frothy elements. But
the popular young men--the members of the club for example--held aloof;
and it was these that Kelly was working for.

“The stiff!” exclaimed Jerry McGlory, as Kelly came back into the
barroom; “he t’inks if he blows his coin over the bar we’ll fall in
line.”

“Look at Mart, over there,” said McCarty, “he’s looking black about
something.”

“He was backcappin’ Murphy a while ago. He’s half lit up, and he’ll say
somethin’ to Larry afore the night’s over, and Larry’ll slam him.”

It was McGonagle that spoke, and a moment later he added:

“Here he comes over! Play foxy, gents; don’t give him no excuse for
bother, see?”

Young Kelly approached, and with him were Daily and Foley.

“How are youse, gents?” saluted Martin. “It’s the old man’s treat;
won’t youse have somethin’?”

“We’re on the floor committee,” said McCarty, “an’ we ain’t touchin’ it
to-night.”

Martin sneered; Daily heaved his bulging chest contemptuously and
coughed. It was Foley that spoke.

“When a gent tries to be friendly wit’ me,” announced he, “I be’s
friendly wit’ him, see? Ain’t that right?”

“It depends on the guy that’s doin’ the stunt,” answered McGonagle.

“Eh, no! What t’ell no! Youse do it every hitch!” And Foley excitedly
dramatized a scene: “A gent comes up to me, and puts out his fin, see?
What do I do? Why I takes it, an’ puts away me medicine like a little
man! All to be sociable, see? All to be sociable!”

“That’s right,” agreed Daily. “That’s the proper t’ing to do. Why
youse’d cut a hell of a caper, turnin’ down good people, wouldn’t
youse.”

“Ah, go soak yer head,” growled McGonagle. “Youse guys give me a pain!
We ain’t suckers; we kin see a play when it’s made, as well as the
next.”

“Youse’re all gents!” put in Martin, sarcastically. “Here that lobster
Murphy goes an’ turns down a lady, at the door. I’m ’sponsible to me
friends for that, d’ye hear? I sold ’em the tickets an’ I’m ’sponsible
for the game I steered ’em against! Ain’t that right?”

“Sure,” answered Daily and Foley in a breath.

“Where’s Murphy?” demanded Martin. “Murphy’s got to apologize fer
insultin’ Nobby’s lady friend. He’s got to do it!”

“It’s comin’,” said McGlory, in a low tone.

“We’d better put Larry next,” remarked McCarty in the same voice.
“Kelly carries a jack; remember how he t’rowed it into Ned Hogan that
night?”

Larry was dancing; he had his arm about Annie Clancy’s trim waist and
they swayed and spun with the music. Annie’s face was bright and happy;
her eyes shone like twin stars, for Larry was telling her how good a
fellow his friend McGonagle was, and that was a tale that Annie could
have listened to forever.

Word had gone about among the “floor committee” that Kelly was looking
for him, and Larry received mysterious nods, winks and signals. He
could make nothing of it, so he led Annie to a seat beside Miss
McTurpin, and walked over to where McGonagle, who had crossed the room,
was standing.