The grocer’s looks were not encouraging and Goose began to waver. But
he pulled himself together, and blurted out. “Say, do youse mind if me
and Annie gits Father Dawson to tie the knot?”

“Is it yezsilf would take Annie till Father Dawson?”

“Sure.”

“Well, the divil himself niver witnessed sich a cheek. An’ might I ax
what yez have till kape a wife on?”

“Why, I ain’t got much dough,” admitted Goose, ruefully. “But there’s
me milk route and--”

“Arrah, go long wid ye! There’s a dale av money in the milk business,
Goose, me b’y, bud yez route’ll niver make ye rich. An’ as for Annie,
she’ll stay at home, an’ help her mother wid the wurk, as she hav
always done. Now don’t be after vexin’ me!” Goose was about to protest;
“’twill do ye no good.”

And the grocer went on his way down the street leaving the young man
gazing despondently after him. He did not notice the approach of Larry
and Kerrigan who had just emerged from Dwyer’s; and Larry slapped him
on the back, remarking:

“Yer lookin’ green around the gills. What’s wrong?”

“I’m gittin’ it in the neck, all around,” answered Goose, savagely.
“They’re all givin’ me the dinky-dink for further orders. I just now
went against Annie’s old man, and he flagged me, cold!”

“Oh, was that Clancy you were speaking to?” asked Kerrigan looking
interestedly after the retreating figure. “I’ve got something to tell
him, but I’ll see him again. Say, you knew old Miss Cassidy, Annie’s
aunt, didn’t you, Goose?”

“Sure,” answered the milkman. “She was me star customer, up till she
died the other day.”

“Well, she left a queer kind of a will.” Kerrigan hesitated a moment,
and then continued: “Say, I know how it is between you and Annie; walk
down the street with us and I’ll tell you about it. It might help you
somehow.”

As they went along, Kerrigan, with a wealth of technical phrases,
explained the peculiarities of the document. A great part of the
explanation was Greek to McGonagle; but Larry grasped the points of the
matter, and by the time Kerrigan had finished, his face was lighted
with suppressed excitement. They paused before the door of the Aurora
Borealis Club in the midst of a rapid debate between the two latter
gentlemen; finally Larry said:

“Then youse’ll keep it quiet for a while?”

“Only until to-morrow afternoon,” said Kerrigan, decisively. “You’ll
have to work quick.”

After the attorney left them, Goose turned to his friend, and inquired
bewilderingly:

“Say, Murphy, put me next, will youse. What kind o’ a graft have youse
got? Hit it out, quick!”

Larry leaned against the frame of Riley’s show window and laughed
exultantly; McGonagle frowned vexedly at his mirth, snapping his
fingers with impatience.

“Say!” exclaimed the latter, as Larry continued to laugh, “youse must
be crazy. What’s the matter, anyhow?”

Larry smothered his laughing, and took Goose rapturously by the lapel
of his coat, proceeding to put into words the idea which he had
conceived while Kerrigan was speaking. When he had finished, Goose tore
himself away and executed a mad acrobatic dance about the sidewalk, and
wound it up by throwing his arms about Larry and hugging him until his
ribs cracked.

“It’s the slickest t’ing I ever run against,” declared he, with
enthusiasm. “I always said you was foxy, Murphy; and if youse work this
right, ye kin take the front seat, and I’ll never say a word!”

After a few moments’ consultation they separated and Larry made his way
toward O’Hara’s. The freight engines, as usual, were coughing up and
down the tracks, hissing and straining at their trailing loads. O’Hara
was repairing the fire brick in an old stove outside; his sleeves were
turned up and he was soot to the elbows.

“I want to talk to youse,” said Larry, as he paused.

“Yez are an early caller!” exclaimed O’Hara, delightedly. “But, faith,”
poking him in the ribs, “I t’ought yez’ed called long afore this, b’y.
She’s a smart slip av a girl, Larry.”