“That sounds good,” admitted Kerrigan. “What do you suggest?”

“We’ll t’row our vote to Haley; they can’t see our hand then; and we’ll
hold all our people for the real work.”

“But Daily and Levitsky!” remonstrated Kerrigan. “He’ll seat them,
they’ll vote and they have no right!”

“They kin seat all they want,” determinedly, “but they don’t vote for
Kelly.”

“You’re a bolitician, Larry,” said Gartenheim, admiringly. “Dot’s a
good scheme, ain’d it?”

“Say, Larry,” said Roddy Ferguson, allowing a crowd of delegates to
precede him to the stairs, “I’m goin’ out to t’row a couple o’ beers
into this gang. Look out for Nolan while I’m out, will ye? Don’t let
him get near Mart Kelly.”

“What’s on the hooks?”

“That’s all right; just keep an eye on him; we don’t want no trouble.”

“There’s McQuirk,” said Kerrigan, as that gentleman entered and shook
old Kelly’s hand with theatrical warmth. A crush of delegates gathered
about the boss, who seemed in high good humour. He stooped over and
whispered something in Kelly’s ear, and the saloonkeeper laughed
uproariously, his face growing mottled with excitement, his hands
gesticulating madly.

“We have thim!” vociferated the candidate, glowing upon his supporters
like a spotted sun; “we have thim on the run, so we have. Begorry,
McQuirk, it’s at school they shud be instead av playin’ at politics!”

“Keep it quiet,” advised McQuirk; “keep it quiet, and let’s get down to
business.” He took Haley aside. “How is it goin’?” questioned he.

“All to the good,” answered Mr. Haley. “The chairmanship’s ourn. There
ain’t no one else but me in sight!”

The boss laughed: “The old man’ll show ’em a few tricks,” said he
complacently. “I think they expected me to lay down, eh?”

After a time everything was in readiness; the temporary chairman
mounted the platform; the scribes of the gathering took their seats and
the convention came to order.

“Gentlemen,” said the temporary chairman, advancing to the edge of the
platform, “we are called together this morning to name a man for the
important office of selectman. I feel that--”

“Chop it off,” advised McGonagle.

“Order! Order!” came from different parts of the house.

The temporary chairman was an elderly man, little known and with a
colourless manner. He endeavoured to go on with his remarks but the
volume of interruption steadily increased.

“We will proceed with the business of electing a chairman,” said he at
length.

McQuirk was on his feet in an instant; Larry followed, also demanding
recognition.

“McQuirk,” said the chairman.

“I give you,” said the boss, “the name of Gratten Haley, of the
nineteenth division, for chairman.”

The supporters of Kelly leaped to their feet with shrieking acclaim; it
was some moments before Larry could be heard.

“I second the nomination of Mr. Haley,” said he, “and move that his
’lection to the chair be made unanimous!”

Dead silence followed. McQuirk looked dumbfounded; Larry smiled sweetly
at him over the heads of the intervening delegates. The vote was a
rising one, and the temporary chairman surrendered the gavel to Haley.

McQuirk was dazed, but respectful; old Kelly smiled broadly and rubbed
his hands gleefully; young Murphy moved among the opposition like a
spirit of wisdom.

McQuirk once more arose. “Let’s keep things moving,” said he. “There
has been no protest against anyone sitting in the convention, with the
exception of Mr. Daily and Mr. Levitsky. We will now look into their
cases.”

“I wouldn’t,” sneered McGonagle, “take too much work on me shoulders,
if I was youse. I’d let the chairman do a little.”