XX

“_Come all ye sons of Erin an’ listen to my lay,
An’ I’ll tell the story av the wise man av Galway,
A credit to his country--a credit to his name,
Three provinces a-ringin’ wid the echoes av his fame._”

AN OLD COME-ALL-YE.


THERE were but few at the six o’clock service, and these were so
scattered about the church as to create the impression of vacancy.
The priest, glittering in gold-embroidered vestments intoned the mass
at the high altar; the acolytes drowsily made the responses; the
worshippers followed the sacrifice with devout attention; a restless
child now and then broke the silence that pervaded.

A light stole through a long, stained window, throwing shafts of
crimson and purple radiance across the side altar, where stood a carven
image of the Holy Virgin. A girl knelt at the altar rail, her head
bowed, her hands clasped. Even the black-robed sisters, who taught in
the parochial school, now and then raised their eyes to look at her,
for she was so white, her attitude was so supplicating.

Larry Murphy who was very regular at church since Mary died, often
glanced up from his book to look at the pleading figure; but he did not
recognize her, he was too far off, or the light was too dim. It was
Rosie O’Hara.

With all her pure young heart Rosie was pleading for her love. Right or
wrong she had been taught to carry her griefs to her who had been born
into the world to crush the serpent’s head; and with an intensity for
which her mind could find no words, she prayed mutely.

The gleaming, richly-wrought vessels had been taken from the tabernacle
and stood upon the pure white altar cloth; the good father bent his
knee, and every head sank in adoration. Rosie, awed to the very soul at
the proximity of the unveiled host, found words--the words of the angel:

“Hail Mary, full of grace,” she breathed, “blessed art thou among
women; and blessed is the fruit of thy womb, Jesus.”

At intervals the bell continued to ring softly, the people beat their
breasts; all bent before the uplifted host, save the child, who looked
on, open-eyed, wondering.

“Holy Mary, mother of God,” pleaded the girl. “Pray for us sinners, now
and at the hour of our death!”

When the services were ended, Rosie lingered until the priest had left
the altar and the people had gone. Upon her way out she paused. In a
far corner, where the light scarcely fell, hung a pale, white Christ
upon a cross; she knelt and pressed her lips to the wounded feet, her
eyes bright with tears, and then she passed out through the great
swinging doors.

Larry had been one of the first to leave the church; Jimmie Larkin, who
was standing upon Kerrigan’s corner, saw him, instantly crossed the
street and advanced to meet him.

“Larkin!” young Murphy’s voice showed his surprise; and he held out his
hand in a hearty, full-blooded fashion. But Jimmie stuffed his hands
into his pockets, and stared at him, with a sneer.

“Ain’t youse forgot somethin’?” asked he.

Larry looked his astonishment: “What’s hurtin’ ye?” he demanded.

“Ye know well enough! I’ve bin put next to the cross game yer workin’,
Murphy; I’m dead on, I tell ye, and I’m rotten sorry! I trusted ye, I
did; I trusted youse like I would me brother.”

“Say, what’s the matter with youse, Larkin? Don’t stand there like a
stuffed shirt! Put me on to the trouble. What are youse jumpin’ me for?”

“Ah! Don’t try that; it won’t work. I ain’t sore because I got the
dinky-dink, but on’y because youse had a hand in it! You was me pal,
wasn’t youse? Didn’t I usta sleep with youse? And didn’t we eat
together? I borried yer coin when I was strapped, and lent youse mine
when I had any. You knowed all about how it was with me and her,
ye knowed it and done me dirt when me back was turned. That’s the
part what hurts, an I’ve broke trainin’ to come here and lick youse,
Murphy--to lick youse till ye beg!”

Larry drew back, frowning into the other’s flushed face.

“I don’t know what ye mean,” said he, sharply. “Youse’re a friend o’
mine, Larkin, and I’ll stand for all kinds o’ talk from ye, but, say,
if ye go t’rowin’ any punches my way, I’ll try to give ye a run for yer
trouble.”