“Did any o’ youse fella’s hear the new one?”

“Bat it out,” requested McGonagle.

“One o’ Rosie O’Hara’s aunts was to see me mother last night, and it
was the first time she was ever in our house, for her and me mother
can’t hit it. I was out at the time--over to see Veronica, ye know--but
I heard all about it at breakfast-time next mornin’.”

“Well, chop it off!” urged McGonagle, impatiently. “Don’t wait until
I’m grey-headed. Bat it out.”

“Larry and Rose is goin’ to run double.”

“G’way!” Goose stared at his friend, amazedly. “It must be a roast.
Murphy was a friend o’ Larkin’s; he wouldn’t play him dirt like that!”

“What’s Larkin got to do with it?”

“Why him an’ Rose was engaged--on the quiet, ye know.”

“Whew!” Jerry whistled through his teeth and frowned across the table
at the other. “I’ll bet the best skate we’ve got in the stable that
Murphy don’t know a thing about it.”

“But Rose does! She’s give Jimmie the ice-house laugh, that’s what
she’s done; he’s only a sparrer, an’ Murphy’s got the money, see? I
never put me lamps on a woman yet that wasn’t daffy after a guy what’s
got a wad o’ rags.”

Danny Casey who sat by a window, emerged from behind his newspaper,
took his feet from the sill, and observed:

“There seems to be lots o’ new t’ings chasin’ around. When I heard that
Dick Nolan and Roddy Ferguson had made up, ye cud a-knocked me down
with a straw; but when I seen them workin’ together against Kelly, why,
say, I almost fainted.”

“That _was_ a funny t’ing,” agreed McGonagle. “I tried to pump Roddy,
but he was dead dry. But, say, it’ll be a good snap for us all, eh?
Nolan’s ace high with Gartenheim, and if he kin coax him to step out,
and give O’Connor a push, Kelly’ll be a dead cock in the pit.”

Casey shook his head doubtfully. He felt that Goose’s hopes were a
trifle too roseate.

“Dick pulls some weight wit’ the old man,” admitted he; “but he can’t
do all that. I tell youse Gartenheim’s too sore on O’Connor to turn in
for him. Stick to Murphy’s lay-out; we’ve got the best chance there.
When we spring it, take me word for it, the whole shootin’ match’ll
stand up on their hind legs.”

“Youse might be right; I only hope ye are,” said Jerry. “Anyhow let’s
go down the line; we ain’t doin’ no good holdin’ down chairs around
here. I want to see old man Hoffer and a lot more guys; they’re friends
o’ the old man’s and I want to sling ’em a breeze.”

When seven o’clock drew on the division houses were wide open; the
special policemen and ward workers were clustered in the doorways and
were aghast at the magnitude of the vote called out by the conflicting
efforts of Kelly and his opponents; it was as heavy as that of a
general election and stood unprecedented in their experience. McQuirk,
in a silk hat and with a cigar between his teeth, was going from
division to division, in one of McGrath’s hacks; his subordinates
worked zealously with the vote, feeling that their future weal depended
upon the impression that they made.

Clancy came through McGarragles’ Alley and turned down the avenue
toward the polling place of his division; his white apron was tucked up
about his waist and he carried a ballot fluttering between his fingers.
Murphy who stood by the curb, watching things, and sending out his aids
to drag voters from their suppers, at once pounced upon the grocer.

“Just a second, Clancy!” besought he.

A stout man with a red face protested.

“Ah, let the man be!” requested he. “The polls’ll be closed in a little
while. Go ahead and vote, Clancy!”

“Close yer face, will youse? I’m doin’ this.”

“An’ yer makin’ a mess of it, too. Youse people’ll split the ticket,
and we’ll get it good and hard, like last time.”

“I take notice youse have all turned in for de guy what licked youse;
youse fellas would cap for McQuirk to beat yer own gran’father.”

Murphy was about to unmask his batteries and wither the red-faced man
with sarcasm when Clancy interrupted him.