VI

“_That’s how they showed their respects for Paddy Murphy,
That’s how they showed their honour and their pride,
They said it was a shame for Pat, and winked at one another,
Everything in the wake-house went, on the night that Murphy died._”

MURPHY’S WAKE.


O’CONNOR’S wagon had come and gone several times; a black streamer hung
from the bell knob; the shutters were bowed with a ribbon of the same
sombre hue. Groups of children sat upon cellar doors and talked in
whispers; slatternly women stood on doorsteps, morbidly watching all
who came or went at the house where old Larry lay dead. Mrs. Nolan, her
head muffled in a woollen shawl, was leaning out at her kitchen window,
likewise engaged, when Hogan the policeman came through the court upon
his evening round.

“Are yez goin’ in?” asked he, pausing.

“Not the noight,” replied Mrs. Nolan, “all me bits av rags is in the
wash, an’ sorra’ a t’ing have I till put on me back. Bella an’ Dick
will, though, an’ mesilf will t’morry noight, plaze God.”

Hogan drummed lightly upon a fireplug with his club. “It’s a Solemn
High Mass they’ll be havin’,” said he.

“Divil doubt it! An’ there’ll be a power av hacks at the funeral; Dick
wint for wan till McGrath’s, bud they wur all spoken.”

“Yez’ll not be at the Holy Cross, thin?”

“Faith, yiz. We have a hack av O’Connor’s, an’ it’s go in stoyle
we will.” Mrs. Nolan was looking toward Murphy’s as she spoke, and
suddenly exclaimed, in a startled voice:

“Who is that, Micky, that young McGonagle have be the scruff av the
neck? Glory be! Is it foightin’ he’d be in front av the house where the
corpse is?”

A thick-set young man had staggered drunkenly up the steps of Murphy’s
house, just as Goose McGonagle halted before the door.

“Say Kelly,” Goose had remarked, “don’t youse t’ink ye’d better sober
up a little before youse go in there?”

The man on the steps swayed to and fro and regarded him with
drink-reddened eyes.

“Wha’s it your bizh’ness?” demanded he. “Don’t ye put yer beak in
thish, McGonagle. D’ye hear?”

“Put yer head to work,” advised Goose, “an’ have some sense, Murphy’s
got enough trouble now wit’out youse botherin’ him, Mart.”

“I’m goin’ in,” declared Martin Kelly, his thick voice raising angrily,
“an’ what’s more I’m a-goin’ to lick Larry Murphy! He’s done me dirt;
an’ I’m a-goin’ to do him up.”

He tried to open the door, but McGonagle whirled him off the steps.

“Ye ain’t a-goin’ to kick up no muss here, and that goes,” said Goose,
decisively; “youse must be daffy, ain’t ye?”

Kelly had just aimed a wild blow at McGonagle when Hogan pounced upon
him.

“So it’s yezsilf, Martin,” sneered the policeman; “it’s a great
foighter yez are gittin’ to be!”

“Take yer paws off a-me, Hogan,” growled the drunken youth, struggling.
“Me old man’ll have youse broke for this.”

“If ye don’t quit makin’ a monkey av yezsilf it’s a ride in the wagon
yez’ll git.”

“Take the lush away,” begged McGonagle; “he’ll have the whole bloomin’
neighbourhood up.”

The expostulating Martin was hustled down the street just as Mary
Carroll opened the door.

“It’s on’y Mart Kelly,” Goose informed her, lifting his hat.

“I’m glad he’s gone away,” said Mary; “for he was here this afternoon
when Mr. Murphy was out, and his talk was shameful. Are you coming in?”

“For a little while. Don’t stand in the draf’; it makes youse cough.”
McGonagle followed her into the sitting room where the black box rested
upon a pair of low trestles. A number of wax lights burned at its
head and an aged woman knelt at the foot, her withered lips muttering
prayers for the repose of the departed soul. A dozen more women
neighbours sat around the room talking lowly.