“Ye threatened Kelly, an’ ye done nawthin’.”

“That’s all right. You’re not inside, Alex; ye don’t know everything.
Now think the thing over, as ye go down to the hall; and take my
advice--keep your eye on your bread and butter! That’s all.”

The crowd on Girard Avenue had been waiting for over an hour for
some sign of a stir, when a sudden blare of brass instruments and a
thundering drubbing of drums broke forth, and into the avenue wheeled
the Emmet Band, Eddie Brennen at its head, splendid in a scarlet coat
and towering shako, his drum-major’s staff whirling about his head
like a metallic circle. Hogan, the policeman, darted into the street
with uplifted club, to hold back the teams from the cross streets. The
throng ranged quickly along the curb; from the adjacent alleys poured
a horde of whooping children; draymen pulled up their nags in order
to watch the passing cohorts. Everyone knew that the gathering of the
clans had begun.

It was the anti-Kelly faction, and they swung along behind the drums
like veterans. Those of them who were to sit in the convention wore
huge scarlet badges upon their breasts. Larry Murphy, in all the glory
of a high silk hat, borrowed from one of McGrath’s hack drivers,
marched at the head of the column, and his aids, Nolan and Ferguson,
were immediately behind him.

“Be me soul!” ejaculated the grocer, “bud young Brennen kin twirl his
bit av a stick, so he kin. An’ luk at the walk av Murphy; sure yez’ed
t’ink he had a mortgage on the City Hall!”

“It puts me in mind,” remarked Tim Burns; “av the owld days whin we
stepped till the music oursilves, Clancy, on Paddy’s day, beyant on
Broad Street.”

“True for ye, Tim, an’ we wid the axes on the shoulders av uz, an’ the
bokays, an’ the strings av doughnuts till ate on the march. Faith an’
the young fellys know nawthin’ av the harp an’ the sunburst; an’ it’s
withered in the hearts av most av the owld wans too, I’m thinkin’. God
luk down on uz! Till think av all the talk there wur av the owld land,
then, an’ the little we hear av it now. Divil a green flag d’yez see
hangin’ out av the windys on the siventeenth av March; an’ the Land
League do be forgotten. The owld blood’s growin’ thin, Tim--thin as
water!”

About the doors of the convention hall, the same hall where the Aurora
Borealis Club had held their ball, the scene was one of extreme
animation. The groups of high-hatted, tobacco-chewing men, seemed
possessed by demons of movement and noise. They laughed with the full
strength of their chests, waved their arms wildly and swore joyously,
with the unconscious finish of experts. Kelly and his henchmen had
already arrived; he had been greeted as a hero by his own faction and
now stood in the hallway surrounded by a solid circle of supporters.
Gratten Haley who had been named for school director the night before
in a convention held in a back kitchen on Second Street, approached
Owen Dwyer.

“Has McQuirk got here yet?” asked Haley.

“I haven’t seen him. Sure, Gratten, it’s not at a side issue like this
he’d be, whin there’s McAteer’s nomination for Congress till be looked
after.”

“That’s where you make your little old mistake,” smiled Mr. Haley.
“This is the only fight in town; all the others is cinched; and Mac’ll
be on the ground to keep the gang in line.”

“An’ tell me, Gratten; d’yez t’ink Kelly will win?”

“Ye can search me! McQuirk says yes; but I wouldn’t put me roll on it,
at that. It runs t’rough me that there’ll be doin’s this mornin’, and
if Jim Kelly wins, it’ll be a mix for yer life. And if he goes under,
he’ll fall like a rotten wall!”

“I hear the young fellys’ll be contestin’ Tim Daily an’ what’s-his-name
that kapes the policy shop. Young Kerrigan do be after tellin’ me that
they got the papers by a trick.”

Owen was innocence personified; he knew that Haley possessed
information that would be of use.

“Oh, they’ll contest ’em, all right,” laughed Haley.

“Here comes the kickers!” shouted Martin Kelly. “The marks is gotta
band, too. Don’t they look gay?”

The anti-Kellyites had swept around the corner with their band playing
a “cake-walk” march, their flags waving and themselves cheering
lustily. O’Connor, the undertaker, had just arrived in one of his own
hacks and now shook hands with his friends.

“The young fellas,” smiled O’Connor, “bate the divil whin they cut
loose. Sure, here they are with the Emmet Band till the fore, ready
till nail Kelly’s hide on the back dure. Well, well, an’ so Alex
McGlory’ll go afore the convention?”