“He ain’t got no gumption,” remarked the magistrate tipping himself
back in his office chair, and loosening the foil covering of a paper of
fine cut. “The old way’s the best. Keep quiet and on the night of the
primaries half of them will forget it, and the other half won’t bother
their heads. Enough picked people to elect each delegate is all we
want; when the whole crowd starts to chip in, it keeps you guessing.”

“That’s what! It’s time enough to make a hurrah and shoot off the
sky-rockets when the convention’s over and your slate’s all to the
good; you’re fresh for the fight, then; but when there’s a preliminary
about who’ll carry the flag, it makes hard feelings; and a man who
would turn out with the gang, with a torch dropping grease down his
back, in the first place, wouldn’t show up in the second even if you
promised to put him under a plug hat and on top of a horse ahead of the
band.”

Moran nodded his approval of this piece of political sagacity; McQuirk
buttoned up his coat.

“I’ve fixed it,” said the latter, “so that if anybody’s pinched they’ll
be run over here in the wagon. Be sure you have somebody to bail them
out if you can’t discharge them.”

“That’ll be all right. I’ll have Pete Slattery hangin’ around
somewhere; he’ll do for a few more, yet.”

Here the magistrate laughed, but the boss looked glum.

“That young Murphy,” said he, “is bothering me some. I don’t like the
way he is jumping into this thing. He’s sore on Kelly, eh?”

“I should say so! He’d give him the knife in a minute. Say,” continued
Moran, suddenly, “ain’t you on the wrong track, McQuirk? You don’t want
to make an enemy of Murphy, he’s growin’ up and beginning to take
notice, don’t you know? Keep him in line; one young one’s as good as a
half dozen old ones, and they do more and don’t ask as much. Ain’t that
right?”

The boss looked at his watch, snapped the case shut, and dropped it
into his pocket.

“I’m going down to the Precinct Club,” said he. “The committee holds a
pow-wow there in half an hour, and I must make good.”

“But, say,” went on the magistrate tenaciously, “what’s the good word,
Mac? Sling me a line on it, so’s I can put the boys next. Is it Kelly
or nothin’? Or is it Kelly if we can?”

McQuirk cleared his throat and twisted his fingers among the links of
his watch chain. He was not revolving a decision--that had been made
weeks ago. He merely wanted his honour to draw his answer more from his
manner than his words. He had seen political friendships broken before
now; and he had also seen men’s words, quoted in fat type, posted upon
fences.

“We’ll do what we can for Kelly,” said he, “yes, we’ll do all we can
for him.”

Moran smiled when his visitor left, and caressed his dyed moustache.

“Just as foxy!” murmured he. “It’ll be a slick member that ever makes
_him_ slip his hold, and that’s no dream. If Murphy draws the most
water why Kelly gets entered among the also rans, that’s all.”

Not many members of the Aurora Borealis Club who had entered the
political arena against Kelly had gone to work that day. Some were
canvassing their divisions for votes or information, and others lounged
about the club rooms, ready for anything that might turn up. Larry
Murphy, wearing a deep black band about his hat, dropped in during the
morning.

“We’re goin’ to do him,” said Larry, after a long talk with his
friends. “If anybody ever needed a lickin’, it’s Mart Kelly. He wants
it bad!”

“I heard Mary prayed for in church on Sunday,” said Jerry, with a
glance at the mourning band.

“Sure,” said Larry. “But she don’t need it, though,” he added
reverently.

“If we all stood as good as her,” remarked McGonagle, “we’d be all
right. Me mother was makin’ a novena for her when she died. She
t’ought she’d get better.”

“Tell her I’m much obliged,” said Larry. “Your mother always liked
Mary.” After a pause he said: “I’m goin’ out to see what’s doin’. Don’t
loaf, gents, keep the t’ing goin’.”

After he had gone McGlory asked.