Martin struck the cushion of the pool table with his fist. “I want to
hear it right now; what are youse goin’ to put me before the meetin’
for?”

“Ah, yer crooked,” said McCarty.

“Me crooked! I can lick the guy that says it.”

Murphy leaned his cue against the wall. “Ye done me out o’ a five spot
by stackin’ the papers,” said he.

Kelly hesitated. Larry was one of the quietest men in the district;
but then he was also the man that the club had entered in the
tournament for amateurs a few years before and he had carried off the
light weight cup by beating three men in the finals.

“I ain’t scrappin’ with no professionals,” growled Martin at length.

“I ain’t no professional,” insinuated McCarty.

“Let it drop, gents!” advised Jerry McGlory who had just come in.
McGlory was the club’s president and he felt that in his office it
behoved him to act the part of a peacemaker. He took the wrathful Kelly
aside and was trying to soothe him when McGonagle entered upon his
errand.

“Somebody wants ye outside, Kelly,” announced Goose.

“Go ahead out an’ see ’em,” begged McGlory, delighted. “Ye’ll feel
better after ye come back.”

Muttering under his breath, Kelly followed McGonagle down the steps,
and after he had gone McGlory observed:

“That lobster’s too gay! He’s got a notion he runs this outfit.”

“Well, he’s got another t’ink,” said Murphy. “Say, us people made a
foxy play when we turned down the fifty dollars his old man wanted to
chip in toward gittin’ the pool table.”

“’Lection’s comin’,” remarked Ferguson. “He t’ought he’d cop our
support be that move.”

“He don’t git no support o’ mine,” Murphy informed them. “I ain’t for
no gent that pulls on both ends o’ the string. Le’me tell youse this,”
rapping with his knuckles upon the piano top; “if Kelly scoops the
nomination we’re a push o’ dead ones.”

“He’s puttin’ his net out though,” affirmed Roddy Ferguson. “O’Connor
told me that he’s got the ward committee fixed, an’ that the heelers’ll
pull for him at the primaries.”

“He’s got all the bums in the ward on his staff,” said McGlory. “He
gits ’em out o’ jail when they’re pinched, an’ he’s loadin’ rum into
them all day, over his bar.”

“The Mozart Sangerbund give him an invitation to their last meetin’,”
put in McCarty, “and he wanted Kerrigan to write him a speech. He’s
makin’ a play for the German vote.”

“I heard in City Hall, yesterday,” said Kerrigan, “that the Mayor
offered him the indorsement of the other side again, if he could split
our ticket. McQuirk was at the pow-wow and somebody slipped him a bunch
of money. But say! if that’s right he’ll have a warm time delivering
the goods.”

“When is the delegate election, Murphy?” inquired McGlory.

“About a month after our ball,” answered Larry.

“Talkin’ about the ball,” remarked McCarty: “we won’t have Larkin to
lead the march for us this time, eh?”

“There’s a guy what knows the figures,” commented McGlory. “How’s he
doin’ now?”

“He’s doin’ ’em all; an’ right off the reel too,” said Murphy, who was
a pupil of Jimmie’s in the manly art, and had watched his progress,
through the newspapers, with interest. “He’s done stunts wit’ the best
o’ them, since he left town, and they kin hardly put a glove on him.
He knocked the Pohoket Cyclone dead to the world in the second minute
o’ the fifth round last Monday night at New Orleans. Larkin’s a comer,
le’me tell youse.”

McGlory had pulled aside one of the window blinds and was gazing down
into the street.

“Say!” exclaimed he suddenly, “it’s a bundle o’ skirts what sent
McGonagle up after Kelly.” He regarded the two figures standing near
the curb below under the glare of the gas light, intently. “It looks,”
said he, “like Nolan’s sister.”