“So I’ve heard,” said one of his friends. “Just to t’ink av ‘McGlory
an’ clane streets’ as a campaign cry.” The speaker paused, delighted
with the shout that greeted his sally; then he added “Here comes
Gartenheim, O’Connor; sure this time a few years ago yezsilf an’ him
wur at it, hard enough.”

O’Connor smiled patronizingly, and reared his head in his most
dignified fashion; Gartenheim, stout, rosy and smiling was advancing
toward him through a lane of outstretched hands.

“Gartenheim, how are ye?”

“O’Connor, I’m glad to see you!”

And the ancient foes grasped each other by the hand, while the gaping
spectators swore soft oaths of wonder.

The band had ceased playing; the marchers were halted in the street and
this reconciliation was in plain view. Roddy Ferguson swung his derby
hat above his head, shouting:

“Gents, t’ree cheers for Gartenheim and O’Connor!”

A whirlwind of shrieks swept over the crowd, sustained until the veins
of their necks swelled to bursting and their faces turned purple;
sticks, hats and flags were tossed wildly in the air.

The two gentlemen whose public burial of the hatchet occasioned this
outburst, bowed and smiled genially and once more shook hands, which
had the effect of renewing the tumult. James Kelly and his supporters
gazed glumly on; the delirious display was not pleasant to them.

“Bloody wars,” breathed Owen in Haley’s ear, “d’yez see that, Gratten?
They’ve made up.”

“It looks bad for Kelly,” admitted Mr. Haley; “and he don’t like it for
a cent.”

“Here’s them two old guys doin’ the love feast stunt,” sneered young
Kelly, “right out in the open. It’s bin fixed to cop votes with; a
blind man kin see that. It makes me sick!”

“We’ll do that all right,” said Goose McGonagle; “youse’ll all be a
sick lot o’ ducks after we slam youse a few.”

The procession had broken ranks; the members of the band had blown
themselves breathless and beaten their arms helpless, and now dispersed
into saloons adjacent to the hall to seek refreshment. The delegates,
by degrees, began to drift upstairs to the room where the convention
was to be held. Here a band, perched in a little gallery at the back,
discoursed music; a flag hung from every point where it was possible
to drive a nail; the platform stood at the far end holding an array of
chairs and tables.

Dick Nolan and Roddy Ferguson, who formed the connecting links between
the formerly hostile factions of Gartenheim and O’Connor, were working
desperately with delegates; they felt that it depended upon them to
secure a solid vote from these two bodies, and they spared themselves
no effort. Neither the undertaker nor the contractor had been active
in the canvass, so their personal followings were not heavy in the
convention; but it served to give the anti-Kelly faction a slight
advantage that they were compelled to exert themselves to the utmost
to sustain. Each man in the hall with a ballot to cast was under
pressure to vote against them, and the pressure would be increased a
hundred-fold when McQuirk got upon the ground.

Gartenheim had Larry Murphy in a corner giving him some fatherly
advice; O’Connor stood listening, with approving nods; Kerrigan,
red-faced and perspiring, came bustling up.

“Gentlemen,” asked he, “who are you for, for chairman?”

“Who do you want?” asked Gartenheim.

“Well, I’d like to see Pete Comisky hold the office. He’s a straight
man.”

“Peter’s all right,” said O’Connor.

“Who do you say, Larry?” inquired Kerrigan.

“Grat Haley.”

“Haley!” Kerrigan stared at him amazedly. “Haley! Why you’re mad.
Haley would rule against us every time.”

“He might--if we let him. It’s just like this. Haley’s got the
chairmanship cinched; no one else can win against him; I’ve been over
the bunch, and I know.” Larry took his cigar from his mouth and pointed
it at Kerrigan, impressively. “The chairmanship’s the first test o’
strength. Make a fight on that and lose, and youse might as well chuck
up the sponge, on the spot. We’ve got grafters on our side, Johnnie,
and you know it; if they see us shake they’ll fly the coop.”