“I’m sorry,” said Larry. Then catching the look which Larkin threw him,
he added: “He never done nothin’ to me, sure; but when I was a kid an’
me father was a-livin’, he told me never to knock.”

The plaster ceiling was seamed with cracks, discolored by the soaking
through of rain. Larkin, lying on his back, thoughtfully followed the
longest of these with his eye; and when he had reached its termination,
he said:

“If youse was in with yer gran’dad just now, Larry, ye’d come in for
some o’ the gilt.”

Murphy turned about with a jerk that threatened to end the cot’s unity.

“I don’t want his coin; I wouldn’t make a play for it if I was flat on
me uppers! I said that I was sorry for the old man, not that I would
scoop his money after he was planted!”

“Keep yer shirt on,” said Larkin; “I was on’y sayin’, ye know.”

Mrs. McGonagle’s son, Goose, was seated upon an empty cracker box in
front of Clancy’s grocery; his wagon was drawn up at the curb, and a
small Italian was shining his russet leather shoes. His mother came up,
panting and wheezing from her haste.

“Run intill the house!” she exclaimed breathlessly.

“All right; I’m gittin’ me leathers shined,” said her son.

“Faith yez shine kin wait, an’ somethin’ ilce can’t.” Mrs. McGonagle
dropped upon a salt-fish barrel, regardless, in her excitement, of what
effect the brine would have upon her church-going skirt. “Run” she
continued, “an’ tell Larry Murphy that his poor owld gran’father’s at
death’s door an’ wants till spake till him.”

Goose stared at her incredulously.

“G’way,” said he.

“Don’t sit there starin’ at me, all as wan as a County Down peat
cutter, but go at wanst! Divil another step cud I stir iv the gates av
Heaven wur stan’in’ open till me!”

Within a minute after hearing the above tidings McGonagle came charging
up the crooked steps leading to their lodger’s room, like a drove of
mavericks.

“Git into yer rags, Murphy,” cried he, “yer wanted.”

“Is it about Kelly an’ Hogan?” asked Larry. “I ain’t no witness. I
didn’t see the scrap.”

“No, it’s yer gran’father; he’s a cashin’ in, an’ wants to see youse.
Me mother jist told me.”

Larry was out on the floor like a shot, pulling on his clothes and
talking incoherently.

“I kin hear the song they’ll sing,” said he. “They’ll pull me into
rags; ain’t that right, Larkin? Where’s me collar buttons?”

“Look in yer other shirt,” Jimmie was also up, and dressing rapidly.
Murphy found the missing articles and resumed:

“They’ll say I wus on’y waitin’ fer a chance to get next to the gilt.”
The thought seemed to anger him and he glared at his friends. “But it
ain’t so,” he cried, “so help me God, it ain’t! I don’t want the coin;
I’ve got a job, ain’t I? And I’ve went up against it this far, alone,
an’ I kin go the rest o’ the distance, too.” He turned to the others,
an appeal in his voice. “Did I ever make a play? Speak out, did I?”

“Sure not,” said McGonagle.

“Yer raw there, Murphy,” said Larkin. “If youse hadn’t been afeared o’
what people’d say the old man’d shook yer hand long ago.”

Larry drew in the slack of his suspenders and closed the catch with
a snap. He looked at Larkin in surprise; this was a thought that had
never struck him.

“D’ye t’ink so?” was all he said.

“I cert’ny do. I often seen youse brush elbows with him on the street,
and him turn and look after ye. He’d a-spoke to ye if youse had give
him on’y half a chance, see?”

“Didn’t he have a chance when I was a kid? Didn’t he have a chance
when me father died and the neighbours in the alley had to take up a
collection to bury him? Did he do anyt’ing for me then? Not on yer
life, he didn’t! He let ’em put me in a Home.”