“Cheese it!” whispered Murphy. But Roddy Ferguson had caught the words;
and he stood with his elbow resting on the piano top, chewing at the
end of his cigar, and looking with clouded brow into the fire. It was
an open secret that Bella had thrown him over for Martin Kelly; Roddy
was too quiet and steady to suit her light temperament, he lacked
Martin’s swagger and bluster, qualities which Bella liked, for she
was one of those women who mistake excess for a proof of spirit and
dissolute living for a mark of manhood.

Martin had found Bella waiting for him in front of Riley’s. His anger
had not had time to cool, and he demanded roughly:

“Well, what d’youse want?”

“I’d like to speak to you Martin,” timidly.

“Say, don’t youse begin to dog me up, d’ye hear! I won’t have it!”

“You didn’t meet me last night at Whalen’s dance like ye said ye would,
and I thought somethin’ might be the matter.”

“Nothin’s the matter only I’m ’lectioneering for the old man, an’ I
ain’t got no time to meet women.”

“S-h-h! Mart Kelly, I don’t thank you one bit for talkin’ to me like
that! Anybody to hear ye would think I was common.”

He looked at her for a moment, and then laughed:

“Oh, I guess not,” said he.

“Well, don’t do it no more! I don’t want people talkin’ about me and
giving me a shamed face. Ye know, yourself, they’d on’y be too ready.
Oh, my Gawd,” suddenly, “here comes Mom!”

Mrs. Nolan, a market basket upon her arm, came down the street with
staggering step. Dick had entrusted her with money enough to go
marketing and it had gone for drink; she was muttering to herself and
gesticulating drunkenly, and as she caught sight of the pair by the
curb, she halted:

“Ah!” cried she. “Is it spharkin’ be the gutter yez’ed be doin’,
jewels? Have ye no home till go till, Bella, that yez must stan’ on the
strate!”

“Oh, go home!” cried Bella, scarlet with shame, “everybody’s lookin’ at
you!”

“Divil a hair do I care. Sure, an’ haven’t I the roight till take a
sup av drink iv I have the price? It’s not long yez father ’ud be in
biz’ness,” she added to Martin, “iv it wurn’t for the loikes av me.”

The young man growled out an oath. He saw McGonagle looking at him
through Riley’s window, and Riley, himself, with a grin upon his face.
A Saturday night crowd filled Second Street; many that knew him stopped
and looked and laughed; on the opposite corner, in front of Kerrigan’s
saloon and under the glare of an arc lamp, a crowd of loungers were
enjoying the sight; Officer Hogan was slyly pointing at him with his
club, and saying something to the bartender who stood in the doorway.

“And is me poor home not good enough for yez,” went on Mrs. Nolan with
increased pitch, “that yez do be kapin’ me daughter stan’in’ in the
strate till be talked about. Divil a better had yez father till he
tuk to sellin’ the drop. Lave go av me arm Bella; I’ll go home whin I
plaze!”

“Ye’ll go home now!” said her son, pushing his way through the crowd
which had collected. “For God’s sake,” as she began struggling, “don’t
make a show of yourself! T’ink of the neighbours!”

“May the divil fly away wid the neighbours! What call have I till be
afeerd av thim?”

“Come on, Mom,” urged Bella, almost in tears, “if ye go on this way,
I’ll never show me face outside the door again!”

“Ye promised to do right,” said Dick, with white face, “and ye’ll never
get another cent o’ my money in yer hands as long as ye live!”

Kelly had darted into Riley’s; and the tittering, thoughtless crowd was
growing greater.

“Is this the way yez talks till yez owld mother!” cried Mrs. Nolan.
“May the cross av Christ darken the day yez wur born.”

A man laughed loudly: Dick turned with a snarl, caught him by the
throat with one hand, the other drawn back for a blow. Bella screamed
and Hogan ran across the street.

“Don’t hit him,” shouted the policeman; “don’t hit him, Dick!” He
dragged the angry, shame-maddened youth away from his victim. “I don’t
want to pull yez,” said he, “for I know just how it is. Go along home,
now and take yez mother wid ye.”