“No!” exclaimed the latter, incredulously.

“Sure t’ing! What are youse goin’ to do?”

“Why, put out the flag!”

Brennen suddenly craned his neck out of its circle of stiff linen,
excitedly.

“Murphy won’t take their tickets!” he breathed, “there’s goin’ to be a
run in at the start!”

All surged toward the gate; McGonagle whistled through his thumb and
fore-finger; a policeman came looming along through the cigar smoke.

“Stand back, gents,” requested he. He flourished his club airily, and
measured Daily with his eye. “On’y three couple allowed at the gate at
a time.”

The crowd fell back disappointedly. The group at the gate were engaged
in excited debate; Foley was describing aerial hieroglyphics with his
clenched fist; the girl had let go his arm and was staring Murphy
boldly in the eye.

“You’ve insulted this lady!” declared Foley in a sharp high-pitched
voice.

“I didn’t insult nobody,” said Murphy. “Didn’t I flag her on the quiet?
Nobody knowed it until youse made a holler.”

“This is the rankest snap I ever stacked up against,” remarked the
girl, tossing her head and rubbing the wrinkles out of her long
gloves. “If I’d a-knowed it was a nasty-nice affair, I wouldn’t a-come!”

“This ain’t the first time youse gave me the wrong end of it, Murphy,”
said Foley, drawing back in such a way as to cause McGonagle to brace
himself for the expected rush. “For the last time; does she go in, or
is she barred?”

“She’s barred!” said Murphy.

“This ain’t no flash shine,” broke in McGonagle, “we’ve got our girls
here to-night, and I, for one, won’t let mine dance on the same floor
with her, and that goes!”

“Push along, gents,” hinted the policeman, “inside or out; yer blockin’
the passage.”

Daily jogged his companion’s elbow and whispered:

“Don’t git leary; ye’ll queer Kelly if ye kick up a row, now. Give him
a chance to work the gang what’s runnin’ the show. We can come back, ye
know, when he’s done; and if youse wants to do business, then, with the
guy on the door, why you kin go ahead.”

The crush was growing; Levi and his orchestra had just gone in, and the
tuning of the harp and violins came floating down the stairway. Belated
Jerry McGlory came striding in, in a light top coat and a glossy silk
hat, bowing like a duke to his acquaintances, with Veronica McTurpin,
the little widow who kept the millinery store; she was half hidden in
her bouquet, and also bowing and smiling, dazzlingly. Mike McCarty
followed, more than ever earning his right to the title of Brummel
of the ward. He carried his stick and one glove in his right hand;
with the other he was barely touching the elbow of Mazie Driscoll,
who sold ribbons in a down-town store. Then there was Shaffer the
collector for the brewery, and Carrie Lentze, whose father carried on
the “Delicatessen” store on the avenue; while behind them came Koskee
McGurk and a daughter of O’Mally, who kept the junk shop back of the
railroad.

“Checks!” cried the man on the stairs jingling his bunch of brass tags.
“Put yer wardrobe away, gents; youse can’t go on the floor with yer
overcoat or sky-piece.”

“Hully gee!” gasped a youth in soiled white kid gloves and a scarlet
Ascot tie; “they sticks youse a quarter for wardrobe!”

“It’s a t’row down,” echoed a neighbour. “Mame,” to the girl at his
side, “it’ll cost two bits to put away yer hat.”

“G’way,” said Mame, shocked. “It’s not the right thing, when you’re
asked a dollar admission.”

The man with the checks was growing impatient.

“Don’t hold a meetin’ and make speeches about it,” requested he. “If
yer goin’ to cough up, do it.”

The bar was on the second floor and had a door leading into the
ballroom; groups of men and women were gathered about the tables;
waiters were rushing about, the fingers of each hand twisted, in some
miraculous fashion, about the handles of a dozen beer glasses; a young
man was seated at a piano, singing a popular ballad in a high, throaty
voice; some members of the club, their coats stripped off, their
sleeves rolled up, were drawing beer, popping corks and passing out
dry-looking cigars to a long line of thirsty patrons who stood along
the bar.