XIX

“_We were batting the town, from the sun went down,
Till the morning grew grey in the sky;
And we heard the cocks crow, as we homeward did go,
With our skins full of mellow old rye._”

SONGS OF THE CURB.


WHEN the two young men pushed open the door leading to the club’s
parlour, they found themselves in a vortex of wild enthusiasm. The
congregated members, for the most part, were coatless; and with cigars
clinched between their teeth they madly gyrated about the room to the
tune of:

“_Oh Murphy he was paralyzed,
McCarty couldn’t see,
I was drunk, but Ferguson,
Was a damn sight worse than me!_”

Danny Casey, his suspenders slipped from his shoulders and his derby
hat tipped back upon his head, presided at the piano; McGlory, standing
upon the pool table waved his arms like a bandmaster.

Mike McCarty appeared to be the only sane person in the place; he stood
in the doorway that led to the adjoining room, as self-possessed, as
well-dressed as ever, a smile upon his face. Though he was born in an
alley and of a woman who took in washing, Mike, in instinct, taste
and deportment, was a gentleman. Seeing Larry and McGonagle enter, he
beckoned them into the other room and closed the door.

“The push is havin’ a good time,” remarked Larry. “That’s a lovely
skate McGlory’s got.”

“They’re all about half lit up,” returned McCarty; “and they are plumb
daffy, too. It’s best to save yer sky-rockets till after the game’s
won; ain’t that right?”

“We’ll take it from youse,” agreed Larry.

“How did youse make out?” asked Mike.

“Knocked ’em cold! We both go to the convention, all right.”

“It was a cinch,” put in Goose. “There’s about forty o’ McGlory’s
drivers boardin’ in my division, and when the old man cut ’em loose,
the Kelly push wilted like wet rags.”

“Then we got ’em,” declared Mike, exultantly. “I knowed youse’d win
out; that gives us two more.” He nodded toward a sheet of foolscap upon
the table, covered with names and figures. “Kerrigan made that,” added
he. “It’s all right, I guess.”

Larry and McGonagle bent over the paper attentively; the uproar in the
other room continued; but the tune was changed; the dancing had ceased
and the voices of the overjoyed members were raised in the ditty:

“_I’m goin’ down to Kerrigan’s,
On purpose to get tight,
An’ when I get home again,
There’s goin’ to be a fight,
I’ll smash up all the furniture,
And all the dishes, too,
Upset the stove when I go in,
Is the first t’ing I will do._”

The reasons for these acts of domestic vandalism were not inquired into
by Murphy or McGonagle; each had his finger upon a name and they were
looking at each other with something like dismay.

“Tim Daily,” Larry straightened up and fairly glared.

“And Levitsky,” moaned Goose. “Elected by our people, too! Oh, I kin
see our finish, right here.”

“Hully Gee!” murmured McCarty, “is them people been worked in? Then
they’re got the bulge.”

There ensued a silence as sulphurous as any profanity ever conceived by
mortal man. Then McGonagle spoke. “Well,” demanded he, of Larry, “what
next?”

“They’ve put us up against it, hard,” mourned Larry.

“Got anyt’ing to say Murphy?”

Larry glowered at them in bovine fury. “I went into this mix,” declared
he, his right hand beating upon his left, “to win! And we’re goin’ to
win if we have to tear up the ward be the roots! McQuirk’s played a
foxy game, and worked some of our people for rank suckers, see? But
we’ll kick the props from under him and do him brown, d’ye hear? We’ll
do him brown!”