“Shut up.”

“Fire him out!”

“I’d like,” growled Goose, “to see any of youse try to fire me out.”

“Cheese it; sit down, and keep yer shirt on!” warned Larry, leaning
forward, “if youse make trouble now, I’ll put a muzzle on ye.”

Johnnie Kerrigan was entrusted with the business of protesting against
the seating of Levitsky and Daily; but Haley, as was expected, carried
matters with a high hand, and overruled him at all points.

“All right,” said Kerrigan, “you can let ’em vote if you want to, and I
know you want to; you can use ’em in your business.”

The Kellyites were triumphant and voiced it until the hall was filled
with their clamour.

“We’ve got ’em burnt to the ground!” declared Martin Kelly. “Why, the
mugs capped the game for us! They must be rank suckers.”

The roll was called amid much tumult; then Chairman Haley hammered with
his gavel for order; when something like silence had been obtained, he
said:

“Gentlemen, our object is to get done with the business in hand as soon
as we can. We will, therefore, pass over all unnecessary forms and go
into the matter of nominating our candidate at once.”

Mr. Haley had carefully rehearsed this little speech during those
moments when there was nothing doing behind the bar over which he
presided, and was much pleased with the applause which it provoked. He
added:

“The chair recognizes Mr. Shulze.”

Mr. Shulze arose amid much disorder on the part of the insurgents.
By virtue of his ability to deliver a certain amount of goods each
election Mr. Shulze held a position in the post-office; he had a
voice like a megaphone, and a fixed set of gestures that resembled
the jerkings of an automatic doll. In tones that shook the windows he
placed the elder Kelly in nomination, and sat down amid a whirlwind of
cheers.

Johnnie Kerrigan got up to name McGlory; he had not spoken a dozen
words before the contractor and his son Jerry, rushed into the hall and
beckoned the speaker and Larry into an anteroom. The old man was pale
and agitated; Jerry acted like a man dazed.

“What’s the graft?” asked Larry.

“He’s quit at the post!” exclaimed Jerry. “He’s laid down like a dub.”

“No!” cried the two young men, aghast.

“I’m tellin’ youse, ain’t I. From a kid up,” added Jerry, bitterly, “I
t’ought the old gent was an ace, but now I find he’s on’y a two-spot!
Say, I t’row up the towel; I’ll never stack against the bunch again.”

Kerrigan grasped the elder man’s arm. “Why, McGlory,” protested he,
“you’re not going to shirk at the last moment, are you?”

“I’m sorry,” said the contractor, “but I can’t allow me name till be
used.” He was trembling under the stress of the moment and looked
appealingly from one to the other. “Don’t blame me too much,” implored
he. “I have too much at stake, b’ys. Sure iv I make the fight, it’s a
ruint man I’d be.”

There was a pause; Jerry was viciously biting at his nails; Larry was
fighting visibly to keep down his anger; from the main hall came the
subdued roar of many voices.

“Afore God!” exclaimed the contractor, “I niver t’ought till do the
like av this! But they have me on the hip, divil take thim, and I can
do no better.”

“Let ’em do youse outa the contract,” rapped out his son. “Let the
whole shootin’ match go t’ell! Youse can do better’n scratch streets.”

“Shut yer mouth,” roared McGlory. “Don’t be stanin’ there talkin’
till me like that. Lose the contract is it, with Matthew Fitzmaurice
holdin’ a paper agin me beyant in his rale estate office? Divil a long
it’s stay in his safe iv he knowed I’d no contract. Gawd help yez
for a fool! Is it till the La Salle College yez cud have gone, iv it
hadn’t been for the contract? An’ how many av thim young fellys wid the
flowers in their coats ’ed call till see yez sister av a Sunday night,
widout it? Tell me that, ye igit!”

“Ease up,” soothed Kerrigan; “I wouldn’t make any trouble between you
for the world.”