XVII

“_Dull rogues affect the politician’s part,
And learn to nod, and smile, and shrug with art._”

CONGREVE.


IT was the evening of the primaries and the opposing factions were
lined up for the battle that would decide who was to be the party’s
standard-bearer within the limits of the ward. The workers had made a
door-to-door canvass, pleading eloquently with some, making a vague
statement of principles to others, hinting at “prospective jobs” to
more. A great deal depended upon the person, and the heelers were
supposed to have the voters in their precincts gauged to a nicety.

Tim Burns was eating his supper of potatoes and eggs at the kitchen
table, together with his wife and two children, when a knock came upon
the door.

“Come in,” called Tim.

It was Gratten Haley, candidate for school director and--McQuirk!

“Hello Tim,” greeted Haley, cheerily, “feedin’ your face?”

“God bless uz an’ save us, Mr. McQuirk,” ejaculated Mrs. Burns,
confused at the sight of the ward’s great man. “Here Xavier, git down
wid yez at wanst, an’ give the gintleman yez sate.”

She dumped her eldest son unceremoniously from his chair and dusted it
with her apron. But McQuirk re-seated the boy and shoved the chair back
to the table.

“Pitch in, son,” advised he, heartily. He speared an egg with a fork
and placed it on the child’s plate. “Go to work,” said he. He rumpled
the youngster’s hair and turned to Mrs. Burns. “This must be a fast
day,” remarked he.

“There’s two this week, so they give out from the altar on Sunday,”
answered Mrs. Burns; “an’ a body’s lost widout the bit av mate, after
workin’ all day.”

Mr. Haley stood in the background, near the range, pulling slowly at a
fat black cigar, and gazing at his leader admiringly. “For star plays,”
muttered he with ecstasy, to himself, “run me against McQuirk. He’s a
miracle!”

The feminine and juvenile side of the house surrendered without firing
a shot; but Tim was made of different stuff and had a long memory. He
glowered at his plate from under his brows and caused buttered wedges
of bread and saucers of tea to disappear with startling rapidity.

“Got plenty to do, Tim?” McQuirk stood with his back to the range and
tugged at the spike-like points of his moustache.

“Lots av it--_now_!” Tim put a great deal of emphasis on the last word
so that the boss might not misunderstand.

“The delegates are named to-night,” interrupted the candidate for
school director, hurriedly, “and the town will be jammed with
conventions to-morrow, all the way from members o’Congress to,”
modestly, “school director.”

“I know,” said Mr. Burns.

“I want your support!” said McQuirk, bluntly. “There’s a movement to
wall me up in me own division by a gang o’ would-be reformers; and I
want all me friends to stand by me.”

“So yez want me vote?” asked Tim, as he wiped his mouth on a corner of
the table-cloth and pushed back his chair.

“Sure; you’ve voted with the party ever since you got out your papers,
an’ you’re entitled to a say in the primaries.”

“Have a cigar,” invited Haley, as Burns got up.

“I’ll smoke me poipe,” said Tim. He took it down from a shelf and
knocked out the “heel” on the edge of the range, then proceeded to cut
a fresh charge from a plug of “Rough and Ready,” with his pocket knife.

“I’m a Dimmycrat,” said Tim, “an’ plaze God, I’ll always stay wan.”

The boss beamed approval. “Now look here,” said he, “you know McAteer,
don’t you? Well this other crowd want to do him out of the nomination
because he sticks like glue to the party, see? Old Owen Dwyer’s on the
ticket, instructed for him; so give Owen your support, eh?”

“McAteer,” spoke Mr. Burns, “is an able man, an’ Owen Dwyer, is a
daysint wan, an’ a friend av my own.”