Larry said something to Kerrigan in a low tone. Johnnie looked
surprised; he closed his remarks abruptly and sat down, while Larry
nodded to the chair for recognition. Upon obtaining this he wasted no
words.

“Gentlemen,” said he, “I’m goin’ to put in nomination a man that
youse can all vote for.” He paused a moment and glanced around at the
expectant faces; he raised both arms, with a sweep and shouted: “Mr.
John Kerrigan, of the 12th Division!”

For an instant there was dead silence; then the anti-Kellyites came to
their feet with an ear-splitting scream of delight. Kerrigan sprang to
Larry’s side protesting excitedly; men stood upon chairs and beat the
backs of their neighbours; pandemonium reigned. Kerrigan was ringed in
by dozens of outstretched hands; his appeals for a hearing were drowned
by the clamour of his partisans.

James Kelly was stricken mute; a moment before he had seen victory in
his grasp; now it had eluded him and was dancing away in the distance.
McQuirk looked on at the scene of disorder, astonished at Larry’s act.
He had expected to hear the name of a man steeped in the factional
differences of the ward--a man easily beaten--and now he was at a
loss, for here was one not only without political enemies but with fast
friends in every faction of the party.

“It ain’t a half-bad move,” said the boss to himself, angry, but forced
to admiration. “If I wasn’t sure about McGlory, I’d say the thing was
fixed.”

Haley hammered vigorously for order; old Kelly and his friends were
gathered in a clump, shouting their observations in each other’s ears;
Larry stood near the platform, frantically endeavouring to attract the
chairman’s attention, and turning every moment to swear at his friends
for their uproar. He saw that the moment for action was at hand; the
surprise had been sprung and had given his faction heart, and he
determined to strike again while they were white hot. Gradually the
noise began to settle; and, though now and then a cheer volleyed across
the hall, his voice could be heard:

“A vote,” stormed he, “a vote.”

The cry was taken up by a dozen voices.

“Vote! Vote!” vociferated the insurgents. “Take the vote!”

This, at a nod from McQuirk, Haley proceeded to do; the secretary
began to read off the names, and the delegates answered “Kelly” or
“Kerrigan” as the case might be. As the vote began, a concerted
movement of a dozen young men, led by Larry and McGonagle, was made
toward the point where Daily and Levitsky were sitting.

“Changed yer mind, Daily?” questioned Larry.

“Not on yer life,” answered Daily, but with an uneasy glance about him.
He saw in their faces that they were ready for anything; and that they
were awkward men to handle, he knew, partly from experience, partly by
hearsay.

“I t’ink youse’ll turn in for Kerrigan when they hand out yer name.”
Larry leaned carelessly upon the back of Daily’s chair, and spoke very
quietly.

“It’s just as easy to say Kerrigan as Kelly,” put in McGonagle, “an’ I
guess Levitsky’ll say it, too, when it’s up to him.”

“I wut like to oblitch your--” began the policy-writer.

“Ah, rats!” returned McGonagle, savagely. “Youse’ll chirp for Kerrigan,
or the next stunt youse’ll do’ll be at the morgue, stretchin’ slabs!”

“Play light, Goose,” advised Larry, “I t’ink they’ll be in line.”

News of the state of affairs reached the elder Kelly as he stood
talking to McQuirk at the far side of the room; and they hurried toward
the storm centre to prevent the coercion of their vote. Because of some
trifling hitch the polling of the delegates had stopped for the time
being, and Haley and the secretary were wrangling with a cluster of men
about the platform.

A man rushed up the aisle and stopped McQuirk, at the same time handing
him a card.

“He wants to see youse right away,” said the stranger.

“Go ahead over and talk to them, Kelly,” said McQuirk. “I’ve got to go
out for a second.”

“What’s this,” asked Kelly, upon reaching the spot where Larry and his
friends were gathered behind the chairs of the two protested delegates.
“What call have yez till be threatenin’ these two min?”