IX

“_Reform: A t’ing what the wise guys gits busy at--when the other
push is holdin’ the jobs._”

CHIP NOLAN’S DEFINITION.


OLD Mrs. Coogan, who was distantly related to Mary, opened the door for
her and Mason. Mrs. Coogan had been there since the old man’s death, as
a sort of chaperon and housekeeper, and vastly pleased was she with the
arrangement. Larry in his shirt sleeves came out of the sitting room as
they entered:

“Hello, back so soon!” exclaimed he. Then, seeing Mason, he added
surprisedly: “Mr. Mason, how are youse?”

“Mr. Dwyer advised me to come to see you,” said Mason, shaking
hands; “but I had not the slightest notion that I should meet an old
acquaintance.”

Mary left them to themselves; and Mason plunged at once into the matter
in hand. He explained in detail the nature of the scheme on foot
and then continued: “Now the local reform organization has resolved
to fight this thing, and wants to enlist as many men acquainted with
practical politics as possible.”

“Sure,” said Larry. “That’s the first crack out o’ the box every time
youse hear from ’em. Say, I’ll give it to youse straight: reform’s all
to the good, but the reformers give me a pain.”

Mason grew a little red, and looked nettled.

“Don’t take that to yerself,” said Larry, noticing this; “I ain’t
a-backheelin’ you or any other man; it’s the reformers as a bunch
that I’m hittin’. When they hear of a crooked job they start to kick
up the dust, hold meetin’s at the Academy of Music and do other
red-hot stunts; then the first t’ing youse know they’re backin’ up
the worst kind of a gang of tin horn pipes who are on’y fightin’ the
administration because they ain’t in on the rake-off. If they win out,
the pipes git the plums and work ranker jobs than the other bunch ever
thought of, and then the reformers flop over into the other camp and
trot the race all over again. Ain’t I right?”

“There is some truth in this,” said Mason, “but then fusion is our
only hope; we have not the strength to name and elect a man of our own.”

“As long as youse t’ink that ye’ll be easy game. Say, the people who
wants the cards dealt square in the city’s got the bulge, but they’re
dead leary on gettin’ their hands dirty; a man with aces in his fist is
beat if he don’t use ’em at the show down.”

“I take it that you would support a reform delegation providing you
were satisfied it was controlled by reformers.”

“Not on yer life! Le’me tell youse somethin’. Some o’ the fiercest guys
what ever broke into politics, started their turn as reformers, and I
don’t take no chances on havin’ a confidence game worked on me, see?
The man what goes to the convention from this division stands to do a
certain t’ing; he’s sent there to do it by the voters and he does it.
Nobody outside’s got anyt’ing to say.”

“That’s as it should be,” said Mason. “But in how many divisions or
wards is that the case? The ring controls the primaries in nine out of
ten of them; the voice of the man with the ballot is seldom or never
heard. Slavery was a liberal institution compared with the electoral
serfdom that exists in some of our municipalities.”

Mason’s warmth led him into exaggeration; but Larry had views upon this
particular subject himself and proceeded to unburden himself.

“Youse’re dead right!” declared he. “I was talkin’ to the old coon what
peddles calamus root to the avenoo, the other day, an’ he said that he
wished he was a slave again, pickin’ cotton an’ dancin’ the buck. He
says that he got a skin full o’ corn pone then, but that it keeps him
scratchin’ with both hands these days to git next to anything with more
stick in it than water. Say, the Uncle Tom racket wasn’t a bad graft
when ye look at it right, and maybe it’ed been a good t’ing for the
wool growers if Uncle Abe had changed his mind.”

Mason smiled at Larry’s literal interpretation of his words and made a
vague remark regarding the blessings of liberty. But the other received
it with contempt.

“That’s got moss on it,” said he. “Liberty’s all right, but it don’t
put beef and beans into a man. There ain’t a mug in this ward that
ain’t got it to lose; but they don’t lay in bed in the mornin’
thinkin’ about it, either, when the whistles are a blowin’; they have
to climb down the street, eatin’ their breakfast out o’ one hand and
buttonin’ their overalls with the other.”