“I also wanted to thank you,” said Maggie, “for what you did last
night. Daddy has a great deal of money--for him, you know--invested in
the City Railway Company’s stock, and the loss of his savings, now that
he is old, would be bitter enough.”

This was news to Larry and it startled him. The proposed steal of the
Motor Traction Company had had very little to do with the fight he and
his friends had made. As he had informed Mason, Kelly’s defeat was his
object and so long as he accomplished this he had cared little for
anything else.

But Kelly and his hate of Kelly suddenly shrunk into insignificance,
and the Traction Company began to loom up dragon-like with Maggie as
its prospective victim.

“I didn’t know that yer father stood to lose anyt’ing,” said he.
Maggie’s face fell; she had thought that perhaps he had made the fight
partly for her sake. He saw the change in her countenance and hastened
to add: “He’ll come out all right, though; McGlory’s against that job
they’re tryin’ t’work.”

“And do you think Mr. McGlory will secure the nomination?”

“Sure. They’ve worked a couple o’ ringers on us, but we’ll win out in
spite o’ them.”

The others re-entered the room at this point.

“The thing is as plain as day,” said Kerrigan. “There were only three
votes in the past session that held them down; the figures show that
they have defeated two of these, and if this is the case and Kelly is
not beaten, they have a majority of one.”

“An’ that,” said Owen, “is as good as a hundred till do their darty
wurk.”

“Is it that close?” asked Larry. “Gee! we’ll have to hustle.”

“They will seat these men, Daily and Levitsky, in the convention, by
hook or by crook,” remarked Kerrigan. “And in that case they will have
a majority of two.”

“But the two-thirds rule,” Mason interrupted. “They must have
two-thirds of the delegates to nominate.”

“The bunch with the most tallies always wins out,” said Larry. “If they
show a lead in the runnin’, enough’ll flop over to make good for them.”

After a time Larry and Kerrigan arose to go, while Mason remained to
talk with Owen.

“Don’t forget, Mason,” said Kerrigan, “that I’ll want to see you
to-morrow about old Miss Cassidy’s will.”

“God help uz all”; said Owen. “All av the owld neighbours is dyin’ off.
She wur a kind body, too, wur Miss Cassidy, for all she wur an owld
maid.”

Maggie opened the door for the two young men as they departed. She
smiled as she said:

“You must come again, Larry,” and then as an after-thought, “And you
too, Mr. Kerrigan.”

Kerrigan looked at Murphy quizzically, as they walked down the street.

“You’re ace high there, Larry.”

“Oh, cut it out,” said Larry, impatiently. But he was glad to hear it
said, nevertheless.

Goose McGonagle had covered his route quickly that morning and by the
time service was finished in the church and the thin stream of people
began to flow into the street, he was standing on the step of Regan’s
cigar store anxiously awaiting Clancy.

The grocer had stopped to discuss the primaries upon the sidewalk in
front of the church, and some little time elapsed before he arrived at
the point where Goose was awaiting him.

“Hello, Clancy,” saluted the latter, cordially. “How’s t’ings?” But
without pausing for a reply he took the elder man by the sleeve and
led him out to the curb. “Say,” inquired he, “have youse noticed that
I’ve been hangin’ around your place a good bit in the last two or t’ree
mont’s?”

“I have,” answered Clancy, bracing himself stiffly.

“Then I guess youse’re onto the reason.”