“I go till wurk in the mornin’,” said he with a rapturous smile. “Young
Nolan is a man av his wurd; he promised me a job at the first chance,
an’ now he have give me wan. McQuirk an’ his political bums kin go till
the devil, for me!”

“Good luck, lad,” wished the grocer. “Gartenheim is the man for yez
till stick till.”

“He have the contract for layin’ the sewer above, at Frankford,” went
on Burns; “an’ he’ll start till open the strate t’morry.”

“Nolan’s a good guy,” commented Jerry.

“That’s no joke,” agreed McGonagle. “He’s a real good t’ing.”

“It’s a pity,” commented Clancy, “that his mother is so tuck up wid the
sup av drink.”

“Ay!” said Tim, shaking his head dismally.

“She hocks everyt’ing she kin carry,” said McGonagle. “Dick can’t trust
her wit’ a cent.”

“Small blame till him,” said Clancy; “she’d git drink wid it. He comes
in an’ pays me bill every Saturday noight himself, poor b’y.”

“Makes big money, too,” remarked McGonagle; “and she cud live like a
lady if she’d cut the bottle. It’s hard lines for Dick, le’me tell
youse; for he’s a hard worker, an’ he’s got mighty big notions ’bout
gittin’ to the top o’ the heap.”

“That sister o’ his is a nice-lookin’ fairy,” said McGonagle.

“Poody as a bicture,” agreed Schwartz. O’Hara gave a grunt; the barber
snatched away his blade and inquired, “Does der razor hurd?”

“Yez damned near cut me chin!” growled the dealer in second-hand goods.
“Shut up, an’ tind till yez wurk.”

“She’s a nice girl enough,” said Jerry, “but, say, she’s cert’ny
playin’ Roddy Ferguson for a dead one.”

“An’ is Roddy shparkin’ her, sure?” inquired Clancy.

“Sure! I never seen anybody so broke up on a bundle o’ skirts in me
life. Say, he’s dead twisted about her; he talks about her every time
he opens his mouth.”

“Roddy’s a study b’y,” said Burns. “I heerd that O’Connor’ll be takin’
him intill the bizness wan av these days. It’s a good man he’d make
her.”

“Dick’s leary on him,” said McGonagle, “he won’t let her even look at
him.”

“D’yez say so!” And Clancy regarded the speaker with great surprise.
“Faith an’ I t’ought they wur great buddies. They wint till the
Brothers’ School together, an’ in thim days, divil a long they wur iver
apart.”

“Why it’s a chestnut!” exclaimed McGonagle. “I t’ought everybody in the
ward was next to that. They’ve bin given each other the stony smile
ever since las’ election, when O’Connor and Gartenheim run against each
other for select council.”

“Ach!” cried Schwartz, “dot vas a hod dime!”

“The warmest ever,” agreed McGonagle. “It was a reg’lar drag out or I
never seen one.”

“Wur they not both Dimmycrats?” asked Tim. “What call had they till
foight, I dunno? I wur in the division at the toime, sure, bud I niver
got the roight av the t’ing.”

“Why, when the gang went to the convention they was split an’ primed
for trouble, see? One crowd wanted O’Connor, an’ the other was
a-fracturin’ their suspenders whoopin’ t’ings up for Gartenheim. And
when the O’Connor push got the bulge, the Dutchman’s people broke
for the door, and started a convention o’ their own upstairs o’
Swinghammer’s saloon. Both o’ ’em was in the fight from that on, and
the way they shovelled out the long green ’ed make youse t’ink they was
rank suckers. Why a mug couldn’t turn aroun’ wit’out runnin’ into a
bunch o’ money.”

“Glory be!”

“Nolan worked for Gartenheim, of course; he couldn’t turn down his
own boss, ye know. An’ Ferguson ’lectioneered for O’Connor for the
same reason, see? An’ he chased aroun’ the ward waggin’ his face for
votes an’ givin’ Gartenheim the knife every chance he got. On election
night,” continued McGonagle, proudly, “we had the returns at the club
by private wire, ye know, and when Roddy was dead sure that Kelly had
flim-flammed the push, he opened up on Nolan an’ said that Gartenheim
had been workin’ wit’ the other side, all along. In a minute they was
clinched an’ the crowd had to pull ’em apart. That’s how it is.”