IV

“_When yer flat on yer back, wit’ a doctor as referee an a train’d
nurse holdin’ the towel, why it’s up t’ youse, Cull, it’s up t’
youse!_”

CHIP NOLAN’S REMARKS.


A RED-FACED, bare-armed woman opened a door in Murphy’s court and threw
a pan of garbage into the gutter. Her next door neighbour was walking
up and down the narrow strip of sidewalk, hushing the cry of a weazened
baby.

“Is Jamsie not well, Mrs. Burns?” inquired the red-faced woman.

“Sorry the bit, Mrs. Nolan; he’s as cross as two sticks. It’s walk up
an’ down the floor wid him I’ve been doin’ all the God’s blessed night.
Scure till the wink av slape I’ve had since I opened me two eyes at
half after foive yisterday mornin’.”

“Poor sowl! Yez shud git him a rubber ring till cut his teeth on; it’s
an illigant t’ing for childer’, I’m towld.”

Contractor McGlory’s stables and cart sheds stood on the opposite side
of the court. A young man sat on a feed-box in the doorway polishing
a set of light harness; a group of dirty children were playing under
an up-tilted cart, and a brace of starving curs fought savagely up the
alley over a mouldy bone. Mrs. Nolan called to the young man:

“An’ sure, is it out drivin’ yez’ed be goin’ so arly on Sunday mornin’,
Jerry?”

“On’y a little spin,” said the youth. “I want to try out a new skate
what the old gent bought at the bazar.” He rubbed away in industrious
silence for a moment and then, nodding toward a clean-looking brick
house at the end of the court, inquired:

“Did youse see Johnnie Kerrigan go in?”

“Is it young Kerrigan go intill Murphy’s!” Mrs. Nolan seemed
dumbfounded.

“Not the saloon-keeper’s son that do be at the ’torneyin’!” cried Mrs.
Burns.

“That’s the guy,” said Jerry. “He went in a couple o’ minutes ago.”

Mrs. Nolan looked at her neighbour, and the latter lady returned the
look with interest.

“I declare till God!” said the former, “Iv that don’t bate all I iver
heerd since the day I wur born. Sure an’ his father an’ owld Larry have
been bitter at wan another for years.”

“It’s forgivin’ his enemies he’ll be doin’ now that the breath do be
lavin’ him,” said Mrs. Burns. “Divil the fear av him forgivin’ me the
bit av rint I owes him, though,” she added bitterly.

“There’s worse than old Murphy,” said Jerry. “Kelly’s got his net out
after the court, an’ if he lands it, it won’t be long before youse find
it out, either.”

But Mrs. Burns could only think of the crusty old harpy who went from
door to door down the court on the first day of the month, the skinny
old claw that reached out so graspingly for the rent, the leathery old
face frowning blackly upon delay, of the bitter tongue that spat venom
into the faces of all not ready to pay. And for the life of her, the
good woman could think of none worse than old Larry Murphy to deal
with.

“Faix an’ he’d take the bit av bread out av the children’s mouths,”
declared she.

A flock of grimy sparrows suddenly lit upon the roof of the stable,
chattering, fluttering and fighting madly; one of the quarrelling dogs
had been defeated and licked his wounds and howled dolefully; a drunken
man, passing the end of the court, pitched into the gutter and lay
there.

“Mother av Heaven!” exclaimed Mrs. Nolan with a suddenness that caused
her neighbour to jump. She was pointing toward the house spoken of as
Murphy’s. “Look there!”

Young Larry Murphy was standing upon the white stone step; he had just
pulled the door bell softly; and catching the astonished stare of the
two women, he swore at them under his breath.

“They’re next already,” he muttered. “They’ll chew me up, an’ spit me
out, an’ laugh about it! Why don’t the fagots stay in the house!”