“He’s here, Uncle Larry.” She took the young man’s hand and placed it
within that of his grandfather: and once more the old man strove to
lift himself, peering at the other with dim eyes.

“An’ this is Mike’s son?” he muttered.

“Yes, sir.” Larry would have liked to have said “Grandfather,” but
somehow it stuck in his throat. He looked upon the old man with awed,
wondering eyes; it was the first person he had ever seen upon the
threshold of death; and the drawn face, wet with the death damp, sent a
chill through him.

“I didn’t do right by yez father, Larry,” said the sick man, “I t’ought
a curse lay upon him for marryin’ yez mother!”

Larry stepped back from the bedside, and Mary Carroll’s quiet eyes
alone kept back the angry words that leaped to his lips in his mother’s
defence. His mother--that oriental-eyed mother--bring a curse upon
anyone! The words still sounded in his ears as he looked down at the
shrunken form, pity contending with anger in his heart.

His mother had died a Christian; she had deserted, in fear and
trembling, the faith of her fathers; she had knelt before the altar
raised to the Nazarene Carpenter, and strove with all the power of her
tortured soul to believe that He was the same God who had spoken to the
Law-Giver of her tribe upon the heights of Sinai. And she had done all
this through love for his father, the father whom this hard old man had
disowned.

“I wud niver knowed better iv it hadn’t a-been for Mary; she made me
see it; it wur her that towld me av the black wrong I done yez, both.
I’ll make up for it, Larry, I’ll make it up, never fear!” The old man
paused for a moment, his face twitching. “D’ye t’ink it’s too late?” he
added eagerly.

“It’s never too late.” And thinking to soothe the fears that gripped at
the darkening brain, Larry added. “It wasn’t much, ye know.”

“But it wur, lad, it wur. Ye don’t know the gredge I wanst held in me
heart agin yez both. Didn’t I walk the flure, when he lay dead beyant
there at O’Connor’s, half mad wid the thinkin’? I t’ought till give him
a daysint berryin’ an’ bring yezself home here; but the divil got the
better av me, lad, so he did! Yez don’t know the black bitterness I’ve
held against yez; yez don’t know!”

The agitation seemed to exhaust him; he sank back, a thin streak of
blood showing on his purple lips.

“Don’t excite yourself, Uncle Larry,” said Mary. “That is all past and
gone now; Larry has forgiven you, and his father has, too.”

A smile of hope flickered over the face of the sick man, and the girl
kissed the withered cheek. The youth with the screed leaned forward.

“Hadn’t he better attend to this,” whispered he; “he may die at any
moment, now. This meeting, or rather the prospect of it, was all that
kept him up.”

The old man caught the words.

“Is that young Kerrigan?” breathed he; “yez are r’ght, Johnnie; soign
me name, lad, an’ I’ll make me mark.”

The name was attached to the paper, the mark was made and the two girls
witnessed it. Kerrigan folded the paper and put it into his pocket;
the old man lay back upon his pillow and seemed scarce to breathe; his
chest was sunken, his eyes stared vacantly. A dog yelped dolefully
below in the court; from the railroad came the hiss of escaping steam
and the grind of wheels. Kelly opened the door softly, and said:

“Father Dawson’s comin’ up.” He returned into the passage and looked
over the stair rail. “This way, Father,” said he.

The pure-faced young priest came into the room. Mary’s lips trembled
and her voice broke slightly as she greeted him.

“Bear up,” said he gently; “death is the common lot; and then he is
very old.” He bent over the bed; the bar of light had shifted and
old Larry’s hair shone like silver under its warm touch. “He should
have the last rites of the Church,” said the priest. Then turning to
Kelly and Larry he added: “I will ask you to leave the room for a few
moments, please. You may stay,” to Kerrigan, who had moved toward the
door with the others. “I may need you.”

The two men stood in the passage for a time in silence; Rosie could be
heard sobbing heavily, and the priest’s voice murmured holy words. At
length Kelly spoke:

“What wur Kerrigan called in for?” asked he.