XI

“_Oh! There was a social party,
Of Repubs and Democrats;
Met at Michael Casey’s,
And put away their hats,
One ticket gave a lady,
Admittance and her grub,
Invited by the committee,
Of the Casey Social Club._”

POPULAR SONG.


THE entrance to the hall was a-glitter with gas lights; freshly
barbered young men in high collars and sack coats stood about the
doorway, smoking cigarettes and spitting on the steps. A wagon was
unloading kegs of beer at a side door; people flocked into the smoky
entry; now and then a hired hack would pull up at the curb and a member
of the club would hand his sweetheart out and up the steps. Four
policemen, engaged at three dollars a head to keep order, stood on the
sidewalk counting the ingoing kegs.

“Forty quarters, all told,” said a pock-marked officer, lifting his
huge shoulders.

“Whew! The club’ll have a neat wad to put away if they sell all that!
An’ just look at the people goin’ in!”

“Say, there’s one fight in every two kegs o’ beer,” said a third
policeman. “That makes twenty turns before the janitor turns off the
lights. We ain’t a-goin’ to have no cinch.”

The others laughed.

At the far end of the entry stood a pair of half doors so arranged that
only one person could pass them at a time. Behind these, bathed in a
glare of yellow light from a cluster of gas jets which hung directly
overhead, stood Danny Casey, attired in a dress suit rented from
Goldstine the costumer, a huge crimson badge edged with gold braid
hanging from his lapel. He was taking tickets and deftly slipping
them into a slot in a tin box which stood beside him on a chair; on
the stairs leading to the ballroom, a man with a mass of brass checks
hanging by strings from his fingers was keeping up a continuous fire
of patter. Murphy and McGonagle, feeling rather queer behind their
glittering expanses of shirt front, walked stiffly down the steps to
where Casey was standing.

“A mob!” said McGonagle. “The floor’s blocked with ’em already.”

“And they’ve on’y started to come,” said Casey. “Who ordered the extree
beer?”

“McGlory: an’ we’ll need it, too; for the guys what’s a-comin’ in looks
dead t’irsty.”

“Say,” put in Murphy, in an injured tone, “I don’t know how youse
people take it but I feel like a sign for a clothin’ store. I can’t
bend wit’out breakin’ me shirt and the pants ain’t got no pockets in.”

“You look,” commented McGonagle, “like a dressed up prize-fighter.
Somebody ought to slam McGlory in the jaw for makin’ that motion that
we all must wear dress suits. I know I look a mess in mine.”

“Thirty-eight dress suits at a dollar a throw,” figured Casey, as he
politely plucked ticket after ticket from hands extending them to him;
“that’s thirty-eight plunks. Goldstine’s makin’ money and McGlory will
be holdin’ him up for a comish.”

There was a stir among the sack-coated and high-collared coterie at
the entrance. A tall, well-built girl, tastefully dressed and carrying
herself with a dashing air, had come in, escorted by a blushing youth
who looked very uncomfortable under the notice they created.

“It’s Nelly Fogarty,” said someone. “She don’t look like a poverty
knocker when she’s dressed up, eh?”

“‘Oh Nelly was a lady,’” sang another. “Say, Brennen, here’s yer girl!”

“Gee!” exclaimed the person addressed. “And I told her I wasn’t comin’;
she’s got me dead!”

The congregated youths grinned over their high collars and bowed after
the fashion approved by Professor Whalen, teacher of the “Glide Waltz.”
The girl flashed them a smile as she went by, a bunch of La France
roses in her hand. But a cloud crossed her face, and she bit her lips
at sight of young Brennen.

“Go on, please, Mr. Shimph,” requested she, of her escort. “I’ll folly
you in a minute.”