The gong over the store door rattled sharply. A plump little woman with
a rosy, chubby face had entered; she wore a bright scarlet shawl shot
with green and saffron, and upon her head was perched a tiny black
bonnet with blue strings.

“Good mornin’ all,” greeted this lady with a sweeping flourish of a
big brass-clasped prayer book. “An’ Bridget, acushla, have ye heard
about poor owld Larry Murphy?”

“God luk down on uz, I have,” answered Bridget, wagging her head from
side to side. “Ah bud death’s a sad t’ing, Mrs. McGonagle.”

“True for ye, asthore, true for ye!” And Mrs. McGonagle wagged her head
also. “But,” she continued, “what will become av the houses in the
alley, an’ the power av money they say he have in bank?”

“We wur this minit spakin’ av that same,” said Ellen; “an’ Malachi
t’inks the gran’son’ll git sorra the cint av it.”

“God be good till uz, Malachi! An’ d’ye t’ink so?”

Mrs. McGonagle caught her breath and stared at O’Hara in horror. “Till
t’ink,” she added, in an awed tone, “av him holdin’ the grudge an’ him
a-dyin’.”

O’Hara had finished his breakfast and was putting on his coat.

“I can see nothin’ ilce for it,” remarked he, sagely.

“Young Larry is a study, sober, hard workin’ boy!” exclaimed Mrs.
McGonagle, “an’ its a sin an’ a shame for him till be treated so. He
have lodged in me third story for a long time, now, an’ I have the
first time till see him wid a sup av drink in him; an’ I’d say that iv
it wur me last breath, so I wud!”

The gong rattled; the door slammed; and a girl, flushed and breathless,
darted through the store and into the kitchen.

“Aunt Ellen,” cried she, “give me the candles we had from last
Candlemas Day; an’ I want the ivory crucifix, too, for they’ve sent for
Father Dawson.”

Ellen began a hurried rummaging for the articles named; the girl caught
sight of Mrs. McGonagle and grasped her by the arm.

“Oh,” she exclaimed, “is it you, Mrs. McGonagle? I’m glad you’re here;
I was just a-goin’ to run around to your house.”

“For why?”

“Here!” cried Ellen pushing a parcel into the girl’s hand. “Here’s what
yez want; away wid ye, now, an’ don’t be stan’in’.”

“You’ll hurry home, won’t you, Mrs. McGonagle,” the girl was now at the
door, her hand on the latch, “an’ tell Larry Murphy his gran’father
wants to see him before he dies.”

And with that the side door closed behind her and she went by the
window like a flash.

“Be the powers av Moll Kelly!” exclaimed O’Hara, his broad face blank
with wonder, “but that bates the Owld Nick.”

He stood staring at his sisters, who had their withered hands in the
air in gestures of amazement. Mrs. McGonagle’s face shone with glee and
she cackled rapturously.

“I must hurry home,” said she, “an’ waken Larry.”

“Is he still in bed?” cried Ellen.

“Do he not go till Mass?” cried Bridget.

“Why, not very often,” admitted Mrs. McGonagle, reluctantly. “He
an’ Jimmie Larkin slapes till a’most dinner toime ivery Sunday. But
Larry’s a daysint b’y for all that. Good day till yez.” And with that
the good little woman bolted into the street and went sailing toward
McGarragles’ Alley, her bright shawl fluttering in the breeze.

The two old crones clawed mystic signs in the air over the spot where
their visitor had lately stood and began muttering in Gaelic. O’Hara
was brushing his Sunday high hat with the sleeve of his coat and paused
as he caught the words.

“What humbuggin’ are yez at now?” demanded he.

“Would yez be after lettin’ the curse stay in the house?” cried Bridget.

“Sure, she hav the evil eye!” asserted Ellen.