Annie tossed her head.

“He don’t,” denied she. “And even if he did,” regretfully, “Pop
wouldn’t like him any better.”

“An’ does not take till Goose?” inquired Owen.

“You know he don’t. And it’s all because Goose is in debt to Mr.
O’Hara. Pop says he’ll never be able to keep a wife; and that he’ll be
sold out.”

Owen saw the tears in the girl’s eyes, and said gently.

“Don’t mind, Annie. You’ll have him, never fear. Goose is a good b’y
till his mother an’ that kind do have luck.”

“I’ll have to go now, Maggie,” said the grocer’s daughter. “Pop’s going
to the Clan-na-Gael meeting to-night and I have to tend store.”

Annie had hardly left when Mason came, and he had barely been welcomed
when Mary Carroll followed. The two men were left in the parlour to
discuss the matter of Mason’s visit, while the girls withdrew to the
sitting room upstairs.

“I could not delay telling you any longer, Maggie dear,” said Mary. “It
came so sudden after poor Uncle Larry’s death that we have been keeping
it a secret.”

“A secret?” exclaimed Maggie. “Tell me, quick.”

“Larry Murphy has asked me to be his wife.”

A quick change came over Maggie’s face; she paled, then flushed, and
faltered when she tried to speak.

“Why, Maggie,” said Mary, anxiously. “What’s the matter?”

But Maggie had recovered quickly and replied:

“I am only glad, Mary--glad for your sake; you will be very happy; for
Larry has a good heart.”

“It came so strangely, too,” said Mary, a happy light in her quiet
eyes. “We barely knew each other, I mean in the conventional sense,
but I must have loved him and he must have loved me for ever so long
without either of us knowing it. And, oh, he thinks so much of you,
Maggie; why, you and he were boy and girl together, and yet I don’t
remember ever hearing you speak of him.”

“We have not seen much of each other for a long time,” said Maggie
quietly.

When they finally came down into the parlour, Mason was ready to take
his leave; he had his hat and stick in his hand and was exchanging some
last words with Owen.

“Every man,” he was saying, “who has the good of the city at heart,
and who has the slightest sense of justice, will do everything in his
power to prevent this proposed steal. I have made up my mind that the
only way to prevent its consummation is to canvass persons who have
influence in their own neighbourhood, acquaint them with the facts and
endeavour to organize an opposition at the primaries.”

“There yez have it,” said Owen, approvingly. “The primaries is
the place till make the fight; lave thim wanst git control av the
convintions in the different wards, an’ they’ll put their own bla’gards
on the regular ticket an’ thin the divil himself couldn’t bate thim.”

“And this young man whom you advised me to see; where can he be found?”

“Oh, Larry Murphy? Yis, yez could do worse thin have Larry wid yez.
Sure, he’s so solid in his own division that McQuirk himself has till
take second place, there.

“Mary,” and Owen turned to the girl, “Is Larry at home?”

“Yes,” answered Mary.

“If you want to find Mr. Murphy,” laughed Maggie, “we will provide a
way for you. Mr. Mason, this is Miss Carroll.” The introduction being
acknowledged, Maggie continued: “You can be of mutual service to each
other, Mr. Mason--you as escort, and Miss Carroll as guide.”

But, after their visitor had gone, and Maggie had sought her own room,
the laugh vanished and she threw herself upon the bed and burst into a
storm of tears.

Her thoughts went back to the time of her childhood, to the little home
in McGarragles’ Alley. She once more saw the dark-eyed boy who had been
her very slave, who was always ready to fight for her, and who was
happiest when by her side. But as they grew up the years had separated
them; she lived in her present home, went to the Normal School and
found new friends very different from the old, though her heart was
still true to them. And Larry only saw the change from the outside.
When she came tripping along on Sunday morning, prayer book in hand, on
her way to church, he, standing on the corner in front of Regan’s cigar
store, rigged out in a cream-coloured overcoat with pearl buttons,
saluted her with a nod of assumed indifference and she would return it
in kind and continue on her way, wondering: “What in the world Larry
Murphy saw in standing on Regan’s corner all day of a Sunday.”