V

“_He’d strop up his razor, graceful an’ nice,
An’ then from your face he’d carve off a slice.
Your life from the gallows! Ye couldn’t be vexed,
When Tecumsha O’Riley’s calling out ‘next.’_”

COMIC SONG.


SCHWARTZ’S barber shop stood almost within the shadow of the church
tower. The gas light streamed through his plate window and across the
sidewalk; a row of customers lined up along the wall, waiting their
turn in the chair; the fat proprietor stropped a razor and conversed
with a short man who stood at the stove rubbing a freshly reaped chin.
A large aired man, with a dyed moustache, was pulling a pair of kid
gloves over hands too large for them. He wore a light overcoat, a silk
hat, a flower in his buttonhole and seemed to sweat importance. This
was Squire Moran, thrice elected to the minor judiciary and a power in
the ward.

“Ach!” exclaimed Schwartz, “dot vas too pad, Misder Purns.”

“It’s gittin’ a bit wurried I am,” said the little man; “for what kin a
body be doin’ wit’out a bit av wurk.”

“Sure I t’ought, Squire,” said Clancy, the grocer, who lay back in the
barber’s chair, tucked about with towels, “that yez wur goin’ till give
Tim a job in the water daypartment.”

“There’s many a slip, Clancy,” quoth his honour, struggling with the
gloves. “I’m not the only duck in the pond, ye know; and it’s Tim’s own
fault that he ain’t in the department long ago.”

“How’s that?” queried the grocer.

“McQuirk’s against him,” answered Moran.

Mr. Burns looked downhearted; the others nodded sagaciously as though
the reason given was all sufficient.

“I almost got down on my knees to him,” went on the magistrate, “but he
said no; so what can I do?”

“What’s he sore on Tim for?” asked Goose McGonagle who, in a bright
scarlet tie, sat near the wash-stand.

“I wouldn’t vote for O’Connor,” Burns hastened to say. “Sure Gartenheim
did me a favour wanst; an’ wud yez have me go back on a friend?”

A murmur went around the room.

“But O’Connor was the reg’lar nominee,” argued Moran, “an’ if it hadn’t
been for the push that turned in for Gartenheim, O’Connor ’ud be
holdin’ down the office instead of Kelly. McQuirk’s dead leary on split
tickets--unless he gives the order--an’ he told ye at the time that
he’d remember ye for it.”

“He had little till do,” mumbled Clancy.

Moran laughed. “What the boss don’t know about practical politics ain’t
worth knowin’,” said he. “An’ it’s the little things what holds the
party in line. So stick to McQuirk an’ McQuirk’ll stick to you.” He had
succeeded with his gloves by this time and was about to depart. “If I
can do anything for you, Tim,” he added, “I’ll do it. But when Mac says
no, why he generally means it. Good night, everybody.”

“Niver talk till me av politicians,” said Clancy; “be dad they’re all
tarred wid wan stick. An’ divil a better are they across the say; sure,
I wur radin’ in the _Irish World_ that Redmond do be at his tricks
wanst more.”

“D’yez say so,” exclaimed Burns; “ah, but the owld dart is in a bad way
betune thim all.”

“Redmond do be after firin’ off some illigant spaches,” put in Malachi
O’Hara, from behind a newspaper, “an’ he’s an able lad, so he is.
Didn’t he take up for Parnell whin--”

“Parnell!” Clancy snorted his disgust so violently as to endanger his
safety from the barber’s razor. “Don’t talk till me av that felly.”

“Yez wur a Parnell man yezself wanst, Clancy,” said Burns, with an
elaborate wink at the others. “Sure, I see the chromo av him that came
with the _Freeman’s Journal_ nailed up on yez wall overight the kitchen
dure.”

“An’ divil a long it stayed out av the stove after he wur found out,”
said the grocer stoutly.