O’Hara, a pot-bellied man, bald, broad-faced and with hard little eyes,
walked back to the kitchen.

“We wur talkin’ av owld Jimmie Larkin,” said Bridget putting the
crockery upon the table. “Look till the sup av coffee, Ellen,” she
whispered, hurriedly, “d’ye not see that it’s b’ilin’ over!”

O’Hara glowered at them, angrily.

“An’ it’s only startin’ yez are!” he cried. “D’ye si’ here like a pair
av owld cacklin’ hens, an’ the bell just rung for Mass!”

The bell had just ceased and people were still hurrying on; the red sun
peeped at them from behind the church tower; the hands of the big clock
reproachfully pointed out the fact that they were late. Bridget glanced
through the side window.

“There goes Clancy’s wife in her new silk,” said she. “It’s proud
enough she’s gettin’ till be, since her husband opened the grocery.”

“May the divil fly away wid Clancy’s wife an’ her silks as well! Faix
an’ there do be other things that Clancy could do wid his money!”
O’Hara was in a stormy mood.

“Sit down till yez bit av breakfast,” soothed Ellen. “Clancy do be
doin’ well an’ will pay the money he borried av ye, Malachi. It’s drink
yez coffee black yez’ll have till,” she added, “for young McGonagle
have not come wid the milk yet.”

He sat down with a crabbed laugh.

“McGonagle is it!” exclaimed he. “Faith an’ there’s another wan. The
toime is drawin’ on, so it is, but divil the dollar richer is he. It’s
wait for me bit av money he’ll be wantin’ me till, but scure till the
day will I. I’ll sell him out, the spalpeen! He do not trate me wid
rayspect.”

A rattling of wheels ceased at the door, and it shook under a
thundering hand.

“Spake av the divil!” remarked Ellen. She took a pitcher from the table
and opened the door. “A pint,” she said.

The youth with the milk-pail dexterously dipped out the required
quantity.

“Heard the news?” inquired he.

“We’ve heerd nothin’,” returned Ellen, “barrin’ that Hogan as he passed
on his bate this mornin’, towld uz that his b’y Tom wur near kilt las’
noight at yez bla’gard club.”

“Ah, Hogan’s daffy! I meant did ye hear about old man Murphy a-dyin’?”

“What!” exclaimed O’Hara, his mouth full, “is owld Larry cold, thin?”

“Not yet; but he’ll die before the day’s over.” And with this the
milkman threw himself and can into the wagon at the curb, and rolled
down the street. Ellen closed the door and put the pitcher upon the
table.

“So he’ll be goin’ at las’,” said she.

“Small wonder,” put in the sister; “sure he’s been poorly this long
time.”

“The owld man made a tidy bit av money in his day,” said the brother,
admiringly. “Bud,” with a sigh, “it’s lavin’ it all he’ll be.”

“An’ tell me, Malachi,” said Bridget, “d’yez think the gran’son’ll git
any av it?”

O’Hara spilled some of the milk into his coffee.

“Divil a cint,” answered he, positively. “Sure, the owld man have
niver noticed him since the day he wur born. An’ small blame till him,”
rapping upon the table with his spoon, “for what call had his son till
take up wid a Jewess?”

“But,” reasoned Ellen, “now that he do be dyin’ he might call him in
an’--”

“Sorra the fear av that! Faix an’ whin Mike lay dead at O’Connor’s, the
undertaker, he wint naythur nixt nor near him. Some say Kelly wur the
cause av that, but owld Larry had timper enough av his own, God knows.”

“An’ do ye t’ink he’ll lave the property till the Church?”

“Ayther that or till Mary Carroll. Kelly t’inks there do be a chance
for his boy, Martin; but Martin’s a hard drinker an’ the owld man niver
liked a bone in his body.”