“What’s the new one?” inquired Larry. “What’s the gang all pullin’
faces about?”

“Keep yer eyes on Kelly,” cautioned Goose. “He’s been puttin’ away
booze all night, and he wants to see you about the girl what you
flagged at the door.”

“Oh!” Larry shoved his head forward in a bull-like movement and stared
about him. “Does he want some o’ my game, eh? Is the lobster spoilin’
to mix it up with me? There’ll be on’y two blows struck; I’ll hit him,
and he’ll hit the floor!”

Mike McCarty came out of the barroom and approached them, crossing the
floor in the midst of the dancers. A girl’s swinging skirts almost
wrapped themselves about him, as her partner piloted her by.

“Ah, there, Mike?” cried the lady, gleefully, and McCarty bowed like a
Chesterfield, never pausing in his stride, however, until he reached
the spot where Goose and Larry were talking.

“Kelly’s comin’ across,” said he pointing among the dancing throng. “He
just seen youse a minit ago, and he’s goin’ to lay you out, so he says.”

Larry growled an answer deep down in his chest; he was looking at Kelly
and his two allies as they swaggered through the dancers. McGonagle
rapped out a vexed oath, as he caught Larry by the arm.

“I t’ought,” complained he, “that we’d pull off this affair wit’out any
scrappin’; and here them mugs spoils it all. Say, if there’s a fight,
Annie won’t do a t’ing but climb down me back fer fetchin’ her.”

“My girl too,” said McCarty, dolefully.

“Come out in the entry,” pleaded Goose. “Don’t scare the women!”

Larry reluctantly went with them, casting glances over his shoulder at
his prospective opponent.

“The mug’ll t’ink I’m afraid o’ him,” said he. When they reached the
entry he tugged viciously at the breast of his dress coat. “Damn it,”
growled he, savagely, “the t’ing ain’t got no buttons on! I don’t want
to get no blood on me shirt front.”

“Keep yer eyes on Foley,” whispered Mike to McGonagle. “I’ll look out
for Daily.”

“D’ye t’ink ye kin hold him even? He pulls the beam fifty pounds more’n
youse.”

“I wouldn’t care,” smiled Mike, “if he was as big as the side o’ a
house. The bigger he is the harder he’ll fall.”

“Youse’re a nice-lookin’ pill, ain’t ye?” were Kelly’s first words.
“Floor Manager, too,” sneeringly; “why, youse don’t know a lady when ye
see one.”

“She’s crooked!” remarked Larry, “and youse know she is.”

“You’re a liar,” snarled Martin. “And even if she is, she’s better than
some women I know of. She don’t live with--”

He did not finish but leaped back and threw up his guard. Larry, his
face wrinkling with a grin, was upon him, striking with the speed,
precision and power of a practiced boxer. The exchange was heavy and
rapid. The men panted and laboured for breath, cursing each other
between their teeth. The policemen were clattering up the steps from
the lower passage; the doorway leading to the ballroom was banked solid
with the strained, anxious faces of partisans; women screamed shrilly;
the music stopped with a crash.

Suddenly Larry slipped and fell upon one knee; Foley made a quick,
wicked kick at his side, and the next instant was thrown against the
wall by the force of a smashing blow from McGonagle. Mike McCarty was
staring eagerly into Daily’s face, his body quivering like that of a
crouching cat, when the officers arrived.

“Fire ’em out,” commanded McGonagle. “Fire the t’ree o’ them!”

The offenders were promptly hustled down the stairs and out upon the
sidewalk. A light rain was falling; the arc lamps sputtered and hissed
in the silence. A form wrapped in a blue mackintosh, and holding an
umbrella, was standing upon the steps.

“Here he is,” laughed the policeman who held Martin; “and I didn’t have
to tell him he was wanted, either.”

The three ejected ones stared curiously at the woman; and the policeman
laughed again and closed the door.

“Mart,” said the woman, “I want to talk to you.”