Terrible inventions these; and even the men that were connected with
them had to be brought from the far South, and did not talk a homely,
wholesome _lingua_, nor live in a homely, wholesome way.

His neighbours confessed that his crops were heavier, and the cereals
and roots finer; but they said to each other knowingly, "What about
the expense of down-put?"  And as far as their own fields went, the
plough-boy still whistled to and from his work.

Then the new live stock, why, type was followed; type was everything
in the Squire's eye and opinion.  No matter what they were, horses,
cattle, pigs, sheep, and feather-stock, even the dogs and birds were
the best and purest of the sort to be had.

But for all the head-shaking there had been at first, things really
appeared to prosper with the Squire; his big, yellow-painted wagons,
with their fine Clydesdale horses, were as well known in the district
and town of B---- as the brewer's dray itself.  The "nags" were
capitally harnessed.  What with jet-black, shining leather,
brass-work that shone like burnished gold, and crimson-flashing
fringes, it was no wonder that the men who drove them were proud, and
that they were favourites at every house of call.  Even the bailiff
himself, on his spirited hunter, looked imposing with his whip in his
hand, and in his spotless cords.

Breakfast at Burley was a favourite meal, and a pretty early one, and
the capital habit of inviting friends thereto was kept up.  Mrs.
Broadbent's tea was something to taste and remember; while the cold
beef, or that early spring lamb on the sideboard, would have
converted the veriest vegetarian as soon as he clapped eyes on it.

On his spring lamb the Squire rather prided himself, and he liked his
due meed of praise for having reared it.  To be sure he got it;
though some of the straight-forward Northumbrians would occasionally
quizzingly enquire what it cost him to put on the table.

Squire Broadbent would not get out of temper whatever was said, and
really, to do the man justice, it must be allowed that there was a
glorious halo of self-reliance around his head; and altogether such
spirit, dash, and independence with all he said and did, that those
who breakfasted with him seemed to catch the infection.  Their farms
and they themselves appeared quite behind the times, when viewed in
comparison with Broadbent's and with Broadbent himself.

If ever a father was loved and admired by a son, the Squire was that
man, and Archie was that particular son.  His father was Archie's
_beau ideal_ indeed of all that was worth being, or saying, or
knowing, in this world; and Rupert's as well.

He really was his boys' hero, but behaved more to them as if he had
been just a big brother.  It was a great grief to both of them that
Rupert could not join in their games out on the lawn in summer--the
little cricket matches, the tennis tournaments, the jumping, and
romping, and racing.  The tutor was younger than the Squire by many
years, but he could not beat him in any manly game you could mention.

Yes, it was sad about Rupert, but with all the little lad's suffering
and weariness, he was such a sunny-faced chap.  He never complained,
and when sturdy, great, brown-faced Archie carried him out as if he
had been a baby, and laid him on the couch where he could witness the
games, he was delighted beyond description.

I'm quite sure that the Squire often and often kept on playing longer
than he would otherwise have done just to please the child, as he was
generally called.  As for Elsie, she did all her brother did, and a
good deal more besides, and yet no one could have called her a tom
girl.

As the Squire was Archie's hero, I suppose the boy could not help
taking after his hero to some extent; but it was not only surprising
but even amusing to notice how like to his "dad" in all his ways
Archie had at the age of ten become.  The same in walk, the same in
talk, the same in giving his opinion, and the same in bright,
determined looks.  Archie really was what his father's friends called
him, "a chip of the old block."

He was a kind of a lad, too, that grown-up men folks could not help
having a good, romping lark with.  Not a young farmer that ever came
to the place could have beaten Archie at a race; but when some of
them did get hold of him out on the lawn of an evening, then there
would be a bit of fun, and Archie was in it.

These burly Northumbrians would positively play a kind of pitch and
toss with him, standing in a square or triangle and throwing him hack
and fore as if he had been a cricket ball.  And there was one very
tall, wiry young fellow who treated Archie as if he had been a sort
of dumb-bell, and took any amount of exercise out of him; holding him
high aloft with one hand, swaying him round and round and up and
down, changing hands, and, in a word, going through as many motions
with the laughing boy as if he had been inanimate.