The furniture was rustic in the extreme--studiously so.  There was a
tall rocking-chair, a great daïs or sofa, and a recline for
Rupert--"poor Rupert" as he was always called--the big chair was the
guest's seat.

The ornaments on the walls had been principally supplied by Branson.
Stuffed heads of foxes, badgers, and wild cats, with any number of
birds' and beasts' skins, artistically mounted.  There were also
heads of horned deer, bows and arrows--these last were Archie's
own--and shields and spears that Uncle Ramsey had brought home from
savage wars in Africa and Australia.  The daïs was covered with bear
skins, and there was quite a quantity of skins on the floor instead
of a carpet.  So the whole place looked primeval and romantic.

The bookshelf was well supplied with readable tales, and a harp stood
in a corner, and on this, young though she was, Elsie could already
play.

The guest to-night was old Kate.  She sat in the tall chair in a
corner opposite the door, Branson occupied a seat near her, Rupert
was on his recline, and Archie and Elsie on a skin, with little Peter
nursing wounded Fuss in a corner.

That was the party.  But Archie had made tea, and handed it round;
and sitting there with her cup in her lap, old Kate really looked a
strange, weird figure.  Her face was lean and haggard, her eyes
almost wild, and some half-grey hair peeped from under an
uncanny-looking cap of black crape, with long depending strings of
the same material.

Old Kate was housekeeper and general female factotum.  She was really
a distant relation of the Squire, and so had it very much her own way
at Burley Old Farm.

She came originally from "just ayant the Border," and had a wealth of
old-world stories to tell, and could sing queer old bits of ballads
too, when in the humour.

Old Kate, however, said she could not sing to-night, for she felt as
yet unused to the place; and whether they (the boys) believed in
ghosts or not she (Kate) did, and so, she said, had her father before
her.  But she told stories--stories of the bloody raids of long, long
ago, when Northumbria and the Scottish Borders were constantly at
war--stories that kept her hearers enthralled while they listened,
and to which the weird looks and strange voice of the narrator lent a
peculiar charm.

Old Kate was just in the very midst of one of these when, twang! one
of the strings of Elsie's harp broke.  It was a very startling sound
indeed; for as it went off it seemed to emit a groan that rang
through the chamber, and died away in the vaulted roof.  Elsie crept
closer to Archie, and Peter with Fuss drew nearer the fire.

The ancient dame, after being convinced that the sound was nothing
uncanny, proceeded with her narrative.  It was a long one, with an
old house in it by the banks of a winding river in the midst of woods
and wilds--a house that, if its walls had been able to speak, could
have told many a marrow-freezing story of bygone times.

There was a room in this house that was haunted.  Old Kate was just
coming to this, and to the part of her tale on which the ghosts on a
certain night of the year always appeared in this room, and stood
over a dark stain in the centre of the floor.

"And ne'er a ane," she was saying, "could wash that stain awa'.
Weel, bairns, one moonlicht nicht, and at the deadest hoor o' the
nicht, nothing would please the auld laird but he maun leave his
chaimber and go straight along the damp, dreary, long corridor to the
door o' the hauntid room.  It was half open, and the moon's licht
danced in on the fleer.  He was listening--he was looking----"

But at this very moment, when old Kate had lowered her voice to a
whisper, and the tension at her listeners' heart-strings was the
greatest, a soft, heavy footstep was heard coming slowly, painfully
as it might be, up the turret stairs.

To say that every one was alarmed would but poorly describe their
feelings.  Old Kate's eyes seemed as big as watch-glasses.  Elsie
screamed, and clung to Archie.

"Who--oo--'s--  Who's there?" cried Branson, and his voice sounded
fearful and far away.

No answer; but the steps drew nearer and nearer.  Then the curtain
was pushed aside, and in dashed--what? a ghost?--no, only honest
great Bounder.

Bounder had found out there was something going on, and that Fuss was
up there, and he didn't see why he should be left out in the cold.
That was all; but the feeling of relief when he did appear was
unprecedented.