He blew out the candle, and jumped into bed.  The gentle goddess
required no further wooing.  She took him in her lap, and he went off
at once like a baby.

Rap--rap--rap--rap!

"Hullo!  Yes; coming, Sarah; coming."

It was broad daylight; and when he admitted Sarah at last, with the
breakfast-tray, she told him she had been up and down fifty times,
trying to make him hear.  Sarah was given to a little exaggeration at
times.

"It was all very well for a gent like he," she said, "but there was
her a-slavin' and a-toilin', and all the rest of it."

"Well, well, my dear," he cut in, "I'm awfully sorry, I assure you."

Sarah stopped right in the centre of the room, still holding the
tray, and looked at him.

"What!" she cried.  "Ye ain't a-going to marry me then, young man!
What are ye my-dearing me for?"

"No, Sarah," replied Archie, laughing; "I'm not going to marry you;
but I've hopes of a good situation, and----"

"Is that all?"  Sarah dumped down the tray, and tripped away singing.

Archie's interview with the advertiser was of a most satisfactory
character.  He did not like the street, it was too new and out of the
way; but then it would be a beginning.

He did not like his would-be employer, but he dared say he would
improve on acquaintance.  There was plenty in the shop, though the
place was dingy and dirty, and the windows small.  The spiders
evidently had fine times of it here, and did not object to the smell
of drugs.  He was received by Mr. Glorie himself in a little back
sanctum off the little back shop.

The premium for apprenticing Archie was rather more than the young
man could give; but this being explained to the proprietor of these
beautiful premises, and owner of all the spiders, he graciously
condescended to take half.  Archie's salary--a wretched pittance--was
to commence at once after articles were signed; and Mr. Glorie
promised to give him a perfect insight into the drug business, and
make a man of him, and "something else besides," he added, nodding to
Archie in a mysterious manner.

The possessor of the strange name was a queer-looking man; there did
not appear much glory about him.  He was very tall, very lanky, and
thin, his shoulders sloping downwards like a well-pointed pencil,
while his face was solemn and elongated, like your own, reader, if
you look at it in a spoon held lengthways.

The articles were signed, and Archie walked home on feathers
apparently.  He went upstairs singing.  His landlady ran to the door.

"Work at last?"

Archie nodded and smiled.

When Sarah came in with the dinner things she danced across the room,
bobbing her queer, old-fashioned face and crying--

"Lawk-a-daisy, diddle-um-doo,
Missus says you've got work to do!"


"Yes, Sarah, at long last, and I'm so happy."

"'Appy, indeed!" sang Sarah.  "Why, ye won't be the gent no longer!"

Archie certainly had got work to do.  For a time his employer kept
him in the shop.  There was only one other lad, and he went home with
the physic, and what with studying hard to make himself _au fait_ in
prescribing and selling seidlitz powders and gum drops, Archie was
pretty busy.

So months flew by.  Then his long-faced employer took him into the
back premises, and proceeded to initiate him into the mysteries of
the something else that was to make a man of him.

"There's a fortune in it," said Mr. Glorie, pointing to a bubbling
grease-pot.  "Yes, young sir, a vast fortune."

"What is the speciality?" Archie ventured to enquire.

"The speciality, young sir?" replied Mr. Glorie, his face relaxing
into something as near a smile as it would permit of.  "The
speciality, sir, is SOAP.  A transparent soap.  A soap, young sir,
that is destined to revolutionise the world of commerce, and bring my
star to the ascendant after struggling for two long decades with the
dark clouds of adversity."