At last!  Yes, at last.  Here were the golden gates of the El Dorado
that were to lead the ambitious boy to fortune, and all the pleasures
fortune is capable of bestowing.

Archie had fancied that Sydney would prove to be a very beautiful
place; but not in his wildest imaginings had he conjured up a scene
of such surpassing loveliness as that which now lay before him, and
around him as well.

On the town itself his eye naturally first rested.  There it lay,
miles upon miles of houses, towers, and steeples, spread out along
the coast, and rising inland.  The mountains and hills beyond, their
rugged grandeur softened and subdued in the purple haze of the day's
dying glory; the sky above, with its shades of orange, saffron,
crimson, opal, and grey; and the rocks, to right and left in the
nearer distance, with their dreamy clouds of foliage, from which
peeped many a lordly mansion, many a fairy-like palace.  He hardly
noticed the forests of masts; he was done with ships, done with
masts, for a time at least; but his inmost heart responded to the
distant hum of city life, that came gently stealing over the waters,
mingling with the chime of evening bells, and the music of the happy
sea-gulls.

Would he, could he, get on shore to-night?  "No," the first officer
replied, "not before another day."

So he stood on deck, or walked about, never thinking of food--what,
is food or drink to a youth who lives on hope?--till the gloaming
shades gave place to night, till the southern stars shone over the
hills and harbour, and strings upon strings of lamps and lights were
hung everywhere across the city above and below.

* * * * * *

Now the fairy scene is changed.  Archie is on shore.  It is the
forenoon of another day, and the sun is warm though not uncomfortably
hot.  There is so much that is bracing and invigorating in the very
air, that he longs to be doing something at once.  Longs to commence
laying the foundation-stone of that temple of fortune which--let
Captain Vesey say what he likes--he, Archie Broadbent, is bent upon
building.

He has dressed himself in his very English best.  His clothes are new
and creaseless, his gloves are spotless, his black silk hat
immaculate, the cambric handkerchief that peeps coyly from his
breast-pocket is whiter than the snow, his boots fit like gloves, and
shine as softly black as his hat itself, and his cane even must be
the envy of every young man he meets.

Strange to say, however, no one appears to take a very great deal of
notice of him, though, as he glances towards the shop-windows, he can
see as if in a mirror that one or two passengers have looked back and
smiled.  But it couldn't surely have been at him?  Impossible!

The people, however, are apparently all very active and very busy,
though cool, with a self-possession that he cannot help envying, and
which he tries to imitate without any marked degree of success.

There is an air of luxury and refinement about many of the buildings
that quite impresses the young man, but he cannot help noticing that
there is also a sort of business air about the streets which he
hardly expected to find, and which reminds him forcibly of Glasgow
and Manchester.  He almost wishes it had been otherwise.

He marches on boldly enough.

Archie feels as if on a prospecting tour--prospecting for gold.  Of
course he is going to make his fortune, but how is he going to begin?
That is the awkward part of the business.  If he could once get in
the thin end of the wedge he would quickly drive it home.

"There is nothing like ambition
If we steer a steady course."


Of course there isn't.  But staring into a china-shop window will do
him little good.  I do not believe he saw anything in that window
however.  Only, on turning away from it, his foot goes splash into a
pool of dirty water on the pavement, or rather on what ought to be a
pavement.  That boot is ruined for the day, and this reminds him that
Sydney streets are not paved with gold, but with very unromantic
matter-of-fact mud.  Happy thought! he will dine.

The waiters are very polite, but not obsequious, and he makes a
hearty meal, and feels more at home.

Shall he tip this waiter fellow?  Is it the correct thing to tip
waiters?  Will the waiter think him green if he does, or green if he
doesn't?