Rupert smiled and nodded.

"And I'm sure," he continued, "the Ann hen was so sorry when she saw
poor Cock Jock carried away."

"Did the Ann hen eat the crust?"

"What, father?  Oh, yes, she did eat the crust!  But I think that was
only out of politeness.  I'm sure it nearly choked her."

"Well, Archie, what will you do else to-morrow?"

"Oh, then, you know, Elsie, the fun will only just be beginning,
because we're going to open the north tower of the castle.  It's
already furnished."

"And you're going to be installed as King of the North Tower?" said
his father.

"Installed, father?  Rupert, what does that mean?

"Led in with honours, I suppose."

"Oh, father, I'll instal myself; or Sissie there will; or old Kate;
or Branson, the keeper, will instal me.  That's easy.  The fun will
all come after that."

* * * * * *

Burley Old Farm, as it was called--and sometimes Burley Castle--was,
at the time our story opens, in the heyday of its glory and beauty.
Squire Broadbent, Archie's father, had been on it for a dozen years
and over.  It was all his own, and had belonged to a bachelor uncle
before his time.  This uncle had never made the slightest attempt to
cause two blades of grass to grow where only one had grown before.
Not he.  He was well content to live on the little estate, as his
father had done before him, so long as things paid their way; so long
as plenty of sleek beasts were seen in the fields in summer, or
wading knee-deep in the straw-yard in winter; so long as pigs, and
poultry, and feather stock of every conceivable sort, made plenty of
noise about the farm-steading, and there was plenty of human life
about, the old Squire had been content.  And why shouldn't he have
been?  What does a North-country farmer need, or what has he any
right to long for, if his larder and coffers are both well filled,
and he can have a day on the stubble or moor, and ride to the hounds
when the crops are in?

But his nephew was more ambitious.  The truth is he came from the
South, and brought with him what the honest farmer-folks of the
Northumbrian borders call a deal of new-fangled notions.  He had come
from the South himself, and he had not been a year in the place
before he went back, and in due time returned to Burley Old Farm with
a bonnie young bride.  Of course there were people in the
neighbourhood who did not hesitate to say, that the Squire might have
married nearer home, and that there was no accounting for taste.  For
all this and all that, both the Squire and his wife were not long in
making themselves universal favourites all round the country-side;
for they went everywhere, and did everything; and the neighbours were
all welcome to call at Burley when they liked, and had to call when
Mrs. Broadbent issued invitations.

Well, the Squire's dinners were truly excellent, and when afterwards
the men-folk joined the ladies in the big drawing-room, the evenings
flew away so quickly that, as carriage time came, nobody could ever
believe it was anything like so late.

The question of what the Squire had been previously to his coming to
Burley was sometimes asked by comparative strangers, but as nobody
could or cared to answer explicitly, it was let drop.  Something in
the South, in or about London, or Deal, or Dover, but what did it
matter? he was "a jolly good fellow--aye, and a gentleman every
inch."  Such was the verdict.

A gentleman the Squire undoubtedly was, though not quite the type of
build, either in body or mind, of the tall, bony, and burly men of
the North--men descended from a race of ever-unconquered soldiers,
and probably more akin to the Scotch than the English.

Sitting here in the green parlour to-night, with the firelight
playing on his smiling face as he talked to or teased his eldest boy,
Squire Broadbent was seen to advantage.  Not big in body, and rather
round than angular, inclining even to the portly, with a frank, rosy
face and a bold blue eye, you could not have been in his company ten
minutes without feeling sorry you had not known him all his life.

Amiability was the chief characteristic of Mrs. Broadbent.  She was a
refined and genuine English lady.  There is little more to say after
that.

But what about the Squire's new fangled notions?  Well, they were
really what they call "fads" now-a-days, or, taken collectively, they
were one gigantic fad.  Although he had never been in the
agricultural interest before he became Squire, even while in city
chambers theoretical farming had been his pet study, and he made no
secret of it to his fellow-men.