"That's true," said Bob.  "The country never seemed to be Bush enough
for anybody.  Soon's they settled down in a place the Bush'd be
farther west."

"Then the Bush, when one is going west," said Archie, "must be like
to-morrow, always one day ahead."

"That's it; and always keeping one day ahead.  But it was Bush enough
for us almost anywhere.  And though I feel ashamed like to own it
now, there was more than once that I wished I hadn't gone there at
all.  But I had taken the jump, you see, and there was no going back.
Well, I used to think at first that the heat would kill us, but it
didn't.  Then I made sure the want of water would.  That didn't
either, because, one way or another, we always came across some.  But
I'll tell you what nearly killed us, and that was the lonesomeness of
those forests.  Talk of trees!  La!  Archie, you'd think of Jack and
the beanstalk if you saw some we saw.  And why didn't the birds sing
sometimes?  But no, only the constant bicker, bicker of something in
the grass.  There were sounds though that did alarm us.  We know now
that they were made by birds and harmless beasts, but we were all in
the dark then.

"Often and often, when we were just dropping, and thought it would be
a comfort to lie down and die, we would come out of a forest all at
once, and feel in a kind of heaven because we saw smoke, or maybe
heard the bleating o' sheep.  Heaven?  Indeed, Archie, it seemed to
be; for we had many a kindly welcome from the roughest-looking chaps
you could possibly imagine.  And the luxury of bathing our poor feet,
with the certainty of a pair of dry, clean socks in the mornin', made
us as happy as a couple of kings.  A lump of salt junk, a dab of
damper, and a bed in a corner made us feel so jolly we could hardly
go to sleep for laughing.

"But the poor beggars we met, how they did carry on to be sure about
their bad luck, and about being sold, and this, that, and t'other.
Ay, and they didn't all go back.  We saw dead bodies under trees that
nobody had stopped to bury; and it was sad enough to notice that a
good many of these were women, and such pinched and ragged corpses!
It isn't nice to think back about it.

"Had anybody found gold in this rush?  Yes, a few got good working
claims, but most of the others stopped till they couldn't stop any
longer, and had to get away east again, crawling, and cursing their
fate and folly.

"But I'll tell you, Archie, what ruined most o' them.  Just drink.
It is funny that drink will find its way farther into the bush at
times than bread will.

"Well, coming in at the tail o' the day, like, as Harry and I did, we
could spot how matters stood at a glance, and we determined to keep
clear of bush hotels.  Ah! they call them all hotels.  Well, I'm a
rough un, Archie, but the scenes I've witnessed in some of those
drinking houffs has turned my stomach.  Maudlin, drunken miners,
singing, and blethering, and boasting; fighting and rioting worse
than poachers, Archie, and among them--heaven help us!--poor women
folks that would melt your heart to look on.

"'Can we settle down here a bit?' I said to Harry, when we got to the
diggings.

"'We'll try our little best, old chum,' was Harry's reply.

"And we did try.  It was hard even to live at first.  The food, such
as it was in the new stores, was at famine price, and there was not
much to be got from the rivers and woods.  But after a few months
things mended; our station grew into a kind o' working town.  We had
even a graveyard, and all the worst of us got weeded out, and found a
place there.

"Harry and I got a claim after no end of prospecting that we weren't
up to.  We bought our claim, and bought it cheap; and the chap we got
it from died in a week.  Drink?  Ay, Archie, drink.  I'll never
forget, and Harry I don't think will, the last time we saw him.  We
had left him in a neighbour's hut down the gully dying to all
appearance, too weak hardly to speak.  We bade him 'good-bye' for the
last time as we thought, and were just sitting and talking like in
our slab-hut before turning in, and late it must have been, when the
door opened, and in came Glutz, that was his name.  La! what a sight!
His face looked like the face of a skeleton with some parchment drawn
tight over it, his hollow eyes glittered like wildfire, his lips were
dry and drawn, his voice husky.

"He pointed at us with his shining fingers, and uttered a low cry
like some beast in pain; then, in a horrid whisper, he got out these
words:

"'Give me drink, drink, I'm burning.'

"I've seen many a sight, but never such a one as that, Archie.  We
carried him back.  Yes, we did let him have a mouthful.  What
mattered it.  Next day he was in a shallow grave.  I suppose the
dingoes had him.  They had most of those that died.