"If you go to bed, and don't speak any more, I may do so again."

"Good-night then.  Sound sleep to everybody.  What fun!"  Then Baby
disappeared.

Craig sat himself down near the tent, after replenishing the fire--he
was to keep the first watch, then Bill would come on duty--and at
once began to sing, or rather 'croon' over, an old, old song.  His
voice was rich and sweet, and though he sang low it could be heard
distinctly enough by all, and it mingled almost mournfully with the
soughing of the wind through the tall trees.

"My song is rather a sorrowful ditty," he had half-whispered to
Archie before he began; "but it is poor Miss Ethie's favourite."  But
long before Craig had finished no one around the log fire was awake
but himself.

He looked to his rifle and revolvers, placed them handy in case of an
attack by blacks, then once more sat down, leaning his back against a
tree and giving way to thought.

Not over pleasant thoughts were those of Gentleman Craig's, as might
have been guessed from his frequent sighs as he gazed earnestly into
the fire.

What did he see in the fire?  _Tableaux_ of his past life?  Perhaps
or perhaps not.  At all events they could not have been very
inspiriting ones.  No one could have started in life with better
prospects than he had done; but he carried with him wherever he went;
his own fearful enemy, something that would not leave him alone, but
was ever, ever urging him to drink.  Even as a student he had been
what was called "a jolly fellow," and his friendship was appreciated
by scores who knew him.  He loved to be considered the life and soul
of a company.  It was an honour dearer to him than anything else; but
deeply, dearly had he paid for it.

By this time he might have been honoured and respected in his own
country, for he was undoubtedly clever; but he had lost himself, and
lost all that made life dear--his beautiful, queenly mother.  He
would never see her more.  She was dead, yet the memory of the love
she bore him was still the one, the only ray of sunshine left in his
soul.

And he had come out here to Australia determined to turn over a new
leaf.  Alas! he had not done so.

"Oh, what a fool I have been!" he said in his thoughts, clenching his
fists until the nails almost cut the palms.

He started up now and went wandering away towards the trees.  There
was nothing that could hurt him there.  He felt powerful enough to
grapple with a dozen blacks, but none were in his thoughts; and,
indeed, none were in the forest.

He could talk aloud now, as he walked rapidly up and down past the
weird grey trunks of the gum trees.

"My foolish pride has been my curse," he said bitterly.  "But should
I allow it to be so?  The thing lies in a nutshell.  I have never yet
had the courage to say, 'I will not touch the hateful firewater,
because I cannot control myself if I do.'  If I take but one glass I
arouse within me the dormant fiend, and he takes possession of my
soul, and rules all my actions until sickness ends my carousal, and I
am left weak as a child in soul and body.  If I were not too proud to
say those words to my fellow-beings, if I were not afraid of being
laughed at as a coward!  Ah, that's it!  It is too hard to bear!
Shall I face it?  Shall I own myself a coward in this one thing?  I
seem compelled to answer myself, to answer my own soul.  Or is it my
dead mother's spirit speaking through my heart?  Oh, if I thought so
I--I----"

Here the strong man broke down.  He knelt beside a tree-trunk and
sobbed like a boy.  Then he prayed; and when he got up from his knees
he was calm.  He extended one hand towards the stars.

"Mother," he said, "by God's help I shall be free."

* * * * * *

When the morning broke pale and golden over the eastern hills, and
the laughing jackasses came round to smile terribly loud and terribly
chaffingly at the white men's preparation for their simple breakfast,
Craig moved about without a single trace of his last night's sorrow.
He was busy looking after the horses when Etheldene came bounding
towards him with both hands extended, so frank and free and beautiful
that as he took hold of them he could not help saying:

"You look as fresh as a fern this morning, Baby."

"Not so green, Craig.  Say 'Not so green.'"