VI.

_AT FINDLAYSON'S FARM--THE GREAT KANGAROO
HUNT--A DINNER AND CONCERT._

Gentleman Craig was certainly a strange mortal; but after all he was
only the type of a class of men to be found at most of our great
universities.  Admirable Crichtons in a small way, in the estimation
of their friends--bold, handsome, careless, and dashing, not to say
clever--they may go through the course with flying colours.  But too
often they strike the rocks of sin and sink, going out like the
splendid meteors of a November night, or sometimes--if they continue
to float--they are sent off to Australia, with the hopes of giving
them one more chance.  Alas! they seldom get farther than the cities.
It is only the very best and boldest of them that reach the Bush, and
there you may find them building fences or shearing sheep.  If any
kind of labour at all is going to make men of them, it is this.

Two minutes after Craig had been talking to Archie, the sweet, clear,
ringing notes of his manly voice were awaking echoes far a-down the
dark forest.

Parrots and parrakeets, of lovely plumage, fluttered nearer, holding
low their wise, old-fashioned heads to look and listen.  Lyre-birds
hopped out from under green fern-bushes, raising their tails and
glancing at their figures in the clear pool.  They listened too, and
ran back to where their nests were to tell their wives men-people
were passing through the forest singing; but that they, the cock
lyre-birds, could sing infinitely better if they tried.

On and on and on went the cavalcade, till sylvan beauty itself began
to pall at last, and no one was a bit sorry when all at once the
forest ended, and they were out on a plain, out in the scrub, with,
away beyond, gently-rising hills, on which trees were scattered.

The bleating of sheep now made them forget all about the gloom of the
forest.  They passed one or two rude huts, and then saw a bigger
smoke in the distance, which Bill told Archie was Findlayson's.

Findlayson came out to meet them.  A Scot every inch of him, you
could tell that at a glance.  A Scot from the soles of his rough
shoes to the rim of his hat; brown as to beard and hands, and with a
good-natured face the colour of a badly-burned brick.

He bade them welcome in a right hearty way, and helped "the lassie"
to dismount.

He had met "the lassie" before.

"But," he said, "I wadna hae kent ye; you were but a bit gilpie then.
Losh! but ye have grown.  Your father's weel, I suppose?  Ah, it'll
be a while afore anybody makes such a sudden haul at the diggin' o'
gowd as he did!  But come in.  It's goin' to be anither warm day, I
fear.

"Breakfast is a' ready.  You'll have a thistle fu' o' whiskey first,
you men folks.  Rin butt the hoose, my dear, and see my sister.  Tell
her to boil the eggs, and lift the bacon and the roast ducks."

He brought out the bottle as he spoke.  Both Harry and Archie tasted
to please him.  But Craig went boldly into battle.

"I'm done with it, Findlayson," he said.  "It has been my ruin.  I'm
done.  I'm a weak fool."

"But a wee drap wadna hurt you, man.  Just to put the dust out o'
your wizzen."

Craig smiled.

"It is the wee draps," he replied, "that do the mischief."

"Well, I winna try to force you.  Here comes the gude wife wi' the
teapot."

"Bill," he continued, "as soon as you've satisfied the cravins o'
Nature, mount the grey colt, and ride down the Creek, and tell them
the new chums and I will be wi' them in half an hour."

And in little over that specified time they had all joined the hunt.

Black folks and "orra men," as Findlayson called them, were already
detouring around a wide track of country to beat up the kangaroos.

There were nearly a score of mounted men, but only one lady besides
Etheldene, a squatter's bold sister.

The dogs were a sight to look at.  They would have puzzled some
Englishmen what to make of them.  Partly greyhounds, but larger,
sturdier, and stronger, as if they had received at one time a cross
of mastiff.  They looked eminently fit, however, and were with
difficulty kept back.  Every now and then a distant shout was heard,
and at such times the hounds seemed burning to be off.