"Don't be greedy.  But I'll tell you.  You shall have my tool-house,
and all my tools, and my gun besides.  Well, this room is to be
sister's own, and she shall also have my fishing-rod, and the book of
flies that poor Bob Cooper made for me.  Oh, don't despise them, they
are all wonders!"

"Well really, Archie," said Elsie, "you talk as earnestly as if you
actually were going to die."

"Who said I was going to die?  No, I don't mean to die till I've done
much more mischief."

"Hush!  Archie."

"Well, I'm hushed."

"Why do you want to make your will?"

"Oh, it isn't wanting to make my will!  I am--I've done it.  And the
'why' is this, I'm going away."

"To Oxford?"

"No, Elsie, not to Oxford.  I've got quite enough Latin and Greek out
of Walton to last me all my life.  I couldn't be a doctor; besides
father is hardly rich enough to make me one at present.  I couldn't
be a doctor, and I'm not good enough to be a parson."

"Archie, how you talk."

There were tears in Elsie's eyes now.

"I can't help it.  I'm going away to enter life in a new land.  Uncle
Ramsay has told me all about Australia.  He says the old country is
used up, and fortunes can be made in a few years on the other side of
the globe."

There was silence in the turret for long minutes; the whispering of
the wind in the elm trees beneath could be heard, the murmuring of
the river, and far away in the woods the cawing of rooks.

"Don't you cry, Elsie," said Archie.  "I've been thinking about all
this for some time, and my mind is made up.  I'm going, Elsie, and I
know it is for the best.  You don't imagine for a single moment, do
you, that I'll forget the dear old times, and you all?  No, no, no.
I'll think about you every night, and all day long, and I'll come
back rich.  You don't think that I won't make my fortune, do you?
Because I mean to, and will.  So there.  Don't cry, Elsie."

"I'm not going to cry, Archie," said Rupert.

"Right, Rupert, you're a brick, as Branson says."

"I'm not old enough," continued Rupert, "to give you my blessing,
though I suppose Kate would give you hers; but----we'll all pray for
you."

"Well," said Archie thoughtfully, "that will help some."

"Why, you silly boy, it will help a lot."

"I wish I were as good as you, Rupert.  But I'm just going to try
hard to do my best, and I feel certain I'll be all right."

"You know, Roup, how well I can play cricket, and how I often easily
bowl father out.  Well, that is because I've just tried my very
hardest to become a good player; and I'm going to try my very hardest
again in another way.  Oh, I shall win!  I'm cocksure I shall.  Come,
Elsie, dry your eyes.  Here's my handkie.  Don't be a little old
wife."

"You won't get killed, or anything, Archie?"

"No; I won't get killed, or eaten either."

"They do tell me," said Elsie--"that is, old Kate told me--that the
streets in Australia are all paved with gold, and that the roofs of
the houses are all solid silver."

"Well, I don't think she is quite right," said Archie, laughing.
"Anyhow, uncle says there is a fortune to be made, and I'm going to
make it.  That's all."

* * * * * *

Archie went straight away down from that boy's room feeling every
inch a man, and had an interview with his father and uncle.

It is needless to relate what took place there, or to report the
conversation which the older folks had that evening in the little
green parlour.  Both father and uncle looked upon Archie's request as
something only natural.  For both these men, singular to say, had
been boys once themselves; and, in the Squire's own words, Archie was
a son to be proud of.