Then the conversation became general.

When accounts were squared, it was discovered that, by the spring
wool, and last year's crops and bullocks, the young squatters had
done wonderfully well, and were really on a fair way to wealth.

"Now, Archie Broadbent," said Winslow that night, "I am going to put
you on to a good thing or two.  You are a gentleman, and have a
gentleman's education.  You have brains, and can do a bit of
speculation; and it is just here where brains come in."

Winslow then unfolded his proposals, which were of such an inviting
kind that Archie at once saw his way to benefit by them.  He thanked
Winslow over and over again for all he had done for him, and merely
stipulated that in this case he should be allowed to share his plans
with Bob and Harry.

To this, of course, Winslow made no objection.

"As to thanking me for having given ye a tip or two," said Winslow,
"don't flatter yourself it is for your sake.  It is all to the memory
of the days I spent as steward at sea with your good old uncle.  Did
you send him back his fifty pounds?"

"I did, and interest with it."

"That is right.  That is proper pride."

Archie and the Winslows spent a whole fortnight in Brisbane, and they
went away promising that ere long they would once more visit the
station.

The touch of Etheldene's soft hand lingered long in Archie's.  The
last look from her bonnie eyes haunted him even in his dreams, as
well as in his waking thoughts.  The former he could not command, so
they played him all kinds of pranks.  But over his thoughts he still
had sway; and whenever he found himself thinking much about
Etheldene's beauty, or winning ways, or soft, sweet voice, he always
ended up by saying to himself, "What a love of a little wife she will
make for Rupert!"

One day, while Archie was taking a farewell walk along Queen Street,
glancing in here and there at the windows, and now and then entering
to buy something pretty for Sarah, something red--dazzling--for her
black servant-maid, and toys for Di, he received a slap on the back
that made him think for a moment a kangaroo had kicked him.

"What!" he cried, "Captain Vesey?"

"Aye, lad, didn't I say we would meet again?"

"Well, wonders will never cease!  Where have you been? and what have
you been doing?"

"Why I've gone in for trade a bit.  I've been among the South Sea
Islands, shipping blacks for the interior here; and, to tell you the
truth, my boy, I am pretty well sick of the job from all I've seen.
It is more like buying slaves, and that is the honest truth."

"And I suppose you are going to give it up?"

The captain laughed--a laugh that Archie did not quite like.

"Yes," he said, "I'll give it up after--another turn or two.  But
come and have something cooling, the weather is quite summery
already.  What a great man you have grown!  When I saw you first you
were just a----"

"A hobbledehoy?"

"Something like that--very lime-juicy, but very ardent and sanguine.
I say, you didn't find the streets of Sydney paved with gold, eh?"

"Not quite," replied Archie, laughing as he thought of all his misery
and struggles in the capital of New South Wales.

"But," he added, "though I did not find the streets paved with gold,
I found the genuine ore on a house-top, or near it, in a girl called
Sarah."

"What, Archie Broadbent, you don't mean to say you're married?"

"No; but Bob is."

"What Bob?  Here, waiter, bring us drinks--the best and coolest you
have in the house.  Now, lad, you've got to begin at the beginning of
your story, and run right through to the end.  Spin it off like a
man.  I'll put my legs on a chair, smoke, and listen."

So Archie did as he was told, and very much interested was Captain
Vesey.