So away went Findlayson to put his fate to the test.

What _he_ said or what _she_ said does not really concern us; but
five minutes after his interview Archie met the honest Scot, and
wondrously crest-fallen he looked.

"She winna hae me," he cried, "but _nil desperandum_, that'll be my
motto till the happy day."

The next fortnight was in a great measure given up to pleasure and
sport.  Both Branson and Bounder received their baptism of fire,
though the great Newfoundland was wondrously exercised in his mind as
to what a kangaroo was, and what it was not.  As to the dingoes, he
arrived at a conclusion very speedily.  They could beat him at a
race, however; but when Bounder one time got two of them together, he
proved to everybody's satisfaction that there was life in the old dog
yet.

Gentleman Craig never appeared to such excellent advantage anywhere
as in ladies' society.  He really led the conversation at the
dinner-table, though not appearing to do so, but rather the reverse,
while in the drawing-room he was the moving spirit.

He also managed to make Findlayson happy after a way.  The Scotchman
had told Craig all his troubles, but Craig brought him his fiddle, on
which he was a really excellent performer.

"Rouse out, Mr. Findlayson, and join the ladies at the piano."

"But, man," the squatter replied, "my heart's no in it; my heart is
broken.  I can play slow music, but when it comes to quick, it goes
hard against the grain."

Nevertheless, Findlayson took his stand beside the piano, and the ice
thus being broken, he played every night, though it must be
confessed, for truth's sake, he never refused a "cogie" when the
bottle came round his way.  Towards ten o'clock Findlayson used,
therefore, to become somewhat sentimental.  The gentleman sat up for
a wee half hour after the ladies retired, and sometimes Findlayson
would seize his fiddle.

"Gentlemen," he would say, "here is how I feel."

Then he would play a lament or a wail with such feeling that even his
listeners would be affected, while sometimes the tears would be
quivering on the performer's eyelashes.

At the end of the fortnight Findlayson went to Brisbane.  He had some
mysterious business to transact, the nature of which he refused to
tell even Archie.  But it was rumoured that a week or two later on,
drays laden with furniture were seen to pass along the tracks on
their way to Findlayson's farm.

Poor fellow, he was evidently badly hit.  He was very much in love
indeed, and, like a drowning man, he clutched at straws.

The refurnishing of his house was one of these straws.  Findlayson
was going to give "a week's fun," as he phrased it.  He was
determined, after having seen Archie's new house, that his own should
rival and even outshine it in splendour.  And he really was insane
enough to believe that if Elsie only once saw the charming house he
owned, with the wild and beautiful scenery all around it, she would
alter her mind, and look more favourably on his suit.

In giving way to vain imaginings of this kind, Findlayson was really
ignoring, or forgetting at all events, the sentiments of his own
favourite poet, Burns, as impressed in the following touching lines:

"It ne'er was wealth, it ne'er was wealth,
That bought contentment, peace, or pleasure;
The bands and bliss o' mutual love,
O that's the chiefest warld's treasure!"

His sister was very straightforward, and at once put her brother down
as a wee bit daft.  Perhaps he really was; only the old saying is a
true one: "Those that are in love are like no one else."

* * * * * *

It was the last month of winter, when early one morning a gay party
from Burley New Farm set out to visit Findlayson, and spend a week or
two in order to "'liven him up," as Harry expressed it.

Bob was not particularly fond of going much from home--besides,
Winslow and he were planning some extensions--so he stopped on the
Station.  But Harry went, and, as before, when going to the kangaroo
hunt, Gentleman Craig was in the cavalcade, and of course Rupert and
Elsie.