II

"_KEEP ON YOUR CAP.  I WAS ONCE A POOR MAN MYSELF._"

The voyage out was a long, even tedious one; but as it has but little
bearing on the story I forbear to describe it at length.

The ship had a passenger for Madeira, parcels for Ascension and St.
Helena, and she lay in at the Cape for a whole week.

Here Captain Vesey left the vessel, bidding Archie a kind farewell,
after dining with him at the Fountain, and roaming with him all over
the charming Botanical Gardens.

"I've an idea we'll meet again," he said as he bade him adieu.  "If
God spares me, I'll be sure to visit Sydney in a year or two, and I
hope to find you doing well.  You'll know if my little yacht, the
_Barracouta_, comes in, and I know you'll come off and see me.  I
hope to find you with as good a coat on your back as you have now."

Then the _Dugong_ sailed away again; but the time now seemed longer
to Archie than ever, for in Captain Vesey he really had lost a good
friend--a friend who was all the more valuable because he spoke the
plain, unvarnished truth; and if in doing so one or two of the young
man's cherished idols were brought tumbling down to the ground, it
was all the better for the young man.  It showed those idols had feet
of clay, else a little cold water thrown over them would hardly have
had such an effect.  I am sorry to say, however, that no sooner had
the captain left the ship, than Archie set about carefully collecting
the pieces of those said idols and patching them up again.

"After all," he thought to himself, "this Captain Vesey, jolly fellow
as he is, never had to struggle with fortune as I shall do; and I
don't think he has the same pluck in him that my father has, and that
people say I have.  We'll see, anyhow.  Other fellows have been
fortunate in a few years, why shouldn't I?  'In a few years?'  Yes,
these are the very words Captain Vesey laughed at me for.  'In a few
years?'  To be sure.  And why not?  What is the good of a fortune to
a fellow after he gets old, and all worn down with gout and
rheumatism?  'Cheer, boys, cheer;' I'm going in to win."

How slow the ship sailed now, apparently; and when it did blow it
usually blew the wrong way, and she would have to stand off and on,
or go tack and half-tack against it, like a man with one long leg and
one short.  But she was becalmed more than once, and this did seem
dreadful.  It put Archie in mind of a man going to sleep in the
middle of his work, which is not at all the correct thing to do.

Well, there is nothing like a sailing ship after all for teaching one
the virtue of patience; and at last Archie settled down to his sea
life.  He was becoming quite a sailor--as hard as the wheel-spokes,
as brown as the binnacle.  He was quite a favourite with the captain
and officers, and with all hands fore and aft.  Indeed he was very
often in the forecastle or galley of an evening listening to the
men's yarns or songs, and sometimes singing a verse or two himself.

He was just beginning to think the _Dugong_ was Vanderdecken's ship,
and that she never would make port at all, when one day at dinner he
noticed that the captain was unusually cheerful.

"In four or five days more, please God," said he, "we'll be safe in
Sydney."

Archie almost wished he had not known this, for these four or five
days were the longest of any he had yet passed.  He had commenced to
worship his patched-up idols again, and felt happier now, and more
full of hope and certainty of fortune than he had done during the
whole voyage.

Sometimes they sighted land.  Once or twice birds flew on board--such
bright, pretty birds too they looked.  And birds also went wheeling
and whirring about the ship--gulls, the like of which he had never
seen before.  They were more elegant in shape and purer in colour
than ours, and their voices were clear and ringing.

Dick Whittington construed words out of the sound of the chiming
bells.  Therefore it is not at all wonderful that Archie was pleased
to believe that some of these beautiful birds were screaming him a
welcome to the land of gold.

Just at or near the end of the voyage half a gale of wind blew the
ship considerably out of her course.  Then the breeze went round to
fair again, the sea went down, and the birds came back; and one
afternoon a shout was heard from the foretop that made Archie's heart
jump for very joy.

"Land ho!"

That same evening, as the sun was setting behind the Blue Mountains,
leaving a gorgeous splendour of cloud-scenery that may be equalled,
but is never surpassed in any country, the _Dugong_ sailed slowly
into Sydney harbour, and cast anchor.