It was strange that what force could not effect, a few soft words
from Branson, and Archie's gift of the hare he had shot on his
birthday, brought about.  Bob Cooper's heart could not have been
wholly adamantine, therefore he began to believe that after all a
game-keeper might be a good fellow, and that there might even exist
gentlefolks whose chief delight was not the oppression of the poor.
He began after that to seek for honest work; but, alas! people looked
askance at him, and he found that the path of virtue was one not
easily regained when once deviated from.

His quondam enemy, however, Branson, spoke many a good word for him,
and Bob was getting on, much to his mother's delight and
thankfulness, when the final and crashing blow fell.

Poor old widow Cooper!  For years and years she had but two comforts
in this world; one was her Bible, and the other--do not smile when I
tell you--was her pipie.

Oh! you know, the poor have not much to make them happy and to cheer
their loneliness, so why begrudge the widow her morsel of tobacco?

In the former she learned to look forward to another and a better
world, far beyond that bit of blue sky she could see at the top of
her chimney on a summer's night--a world where everything would be
bright and joyful, where there would be no vexatious rheumatism, no
age, and neither cold nor care.  From the latter she drew sweet
forgetfulness of present trouble, and happy recollections of bygone
years.

Sitting there by the hearth all alone--her son perhaps away on the
hill--her thoughts used often-times to run away with her.  Once more
she would be young, once again her hair was a bonnie brown, her form
little and graceful, roses mantling in her cheeks, soft light in her
eyes.  And she is wandering through the tasselled broom with David by
her side.  "David!  Heigho!" she would sigh as she shook the ashes
from her pipie.  "Poor David! it seems a long, long time since he
left me for the better land," and the sunlight would stream down the
big, open chimney and fall upon her skinny hands--fall upon the
elfin-like locks that escaped from beneath her cap--fall, too, on the
glittering pages of the Book on her lap like a promise of better
things to come.

Before that sad night, when, while sitting up waiting for her son,
she was startled by the sudden noise of the struggle that commenced
at her door, she thought she had reason to be glad and thankful for
the softening of her hoy's heart.

Then all her joy collapsed, her hopes collapsed--fell around her like
a house of cards.  It was a cruel, a terrible blow.

The policeman had carried her in, laid her on the bed with a rough
sort of kindness, made up the fire, then gone out and thought no more
about her.

How she had spent the night need hardly be said; it is better
imagined.  She had dropped asleep at last, and when she awoke from
fevered dreams it was daylight out of doors, but darkness in the hut.
The window and door were snowed up, and only a faint pale light
shimmered in through the chimney, falling on the fireless hearth--a
dismal sight.

Many times that day she had tried to rise, but all in vain.  The cold
grew more intense as night drew on, and it did its work on the poor
widow's weakened frame.  Her dreams grew more bright and happy
though, as her body became numbed and insensible.  It was as though
the spirit were rejoicing in its coming freedom.  But dreams left her
at last.  Then all was still in the house, save the ticking of the
old clock that hung against the wall.

The Squire speedily effected Bob Cooper's freedom, and he felt he had
really done a good thing.

"Now, Robert," he told him, "you have had a sad experience.  Let it
be a lesson to you.  I'll give you a chance.  Come to Burley, and
Branson will find you honest work as long as you like to do it."

"Lord love you, sir!" cried Bob.  "There are few gentry like you."

"I don't know so much about that, Robert.  You are not acquainted
with all the good qualities of gentlefolks yet.  But now, Branson,
how are we all to get home?"

"Oh, I know!" said Archie.  "Scallowa can easily bear Branson's
weight, and I will ride the big hunter along with Bob."

So this was arranged.

It was getting gloamed ere they neared the widow's lonesome hut.  The
Squire with Branson had left Archie and Bob, and cut across the
frozen moor by themselves.