Old Kate required another cup of tea after that.  Then Branson got
out his fiddle from a green baize bag; and if he had not played those
merry airs, I do not believe that old Kate would have had the courage
to go downstairs that night at all.

Archie's pony was great fun at first.  The best of it was that he had
never been broken in.  The Squire, or rather his bailiff, had bought
him out of a drove; so he was, literally speaking, as wild as the
hills, and as mad as a March hare.  But he soon knew Archie and
Elsie, and, under Branson's supervision, Scallowa was put into
training on the lawn.  He was led, he was walked, he was galloped.
But he reared, and kicked, and rolled whenever he thought of it, and
yet there was not a bit of vice about him.

Spring had come, and early summer itself, before Scallowa permitted
Archie to ride him, and a week or two after this the difficulty would
have been to have told which of the two was the wilder and dafter,
Archie or Scallowa.  They certainly had managed to establish the most
amicable relations.  Whatever Scallowa thought, Archie agreed to, and
_vice versa_, and the pair were never out of mischief.  Of course
Archie was pitched off now and then, but he told Elsie he did not
mind it, and in fact preferred it to constant uprightness: it was a
change.  But the pony never ran away, because Archie always had a bit
of carrot in his pocket to give him when he got up off the ground.

Mr. Walton assured Archie that these carrots accounted for his many
tumbles.  And there really did seem to be a foundation of truth about
this statement.  For of course the pony had soon come to know that it
was to his interest to throw his rider, and acted accordingly.  So
after a time Archie gave the carrot-payment up, and matters were
mended.

It was only when school was over that Archie went for a canter,
unless he happened to get up very early in the morning for the
purpose of riding.  And this he frequently did, so that, before the
summer was done, Scallowa and Archie were as well known over all the
countryside as the postman himself.

Archie's pony was certainly not very long in the legs, but
nevertheless the leaps he could take were quite surprising.

On the second summer after Archie got this pony both horse and rider
were about perfect in their training, and in the following winter he
appeared in the hunting-field with the greatest _sang-froid_,
although many of the farmers, on their weight-carrying hunters, could
have jumped over Archie, Scallowa, and all.  The boy had a long way
to ride to the hounds, and he used to start off the night before.  He
really did not care where he slept.  Old Kate used to make up a
packet of sandwiches for him, and this would be his dinner and
breakfast.  Scallowa he used to tie up in some byre, and as often as
not Archie would turn in beside him among the straw.  In the morning
he would finish the remainder of Kate's sandwiches, make his toilet
in some running stream or lake, and be as fresh as a daisy when the
meet took place.

Both he and Scallowa were somewhat uncouth-looking.  Elsie, his
sister, had proposed that he should ride in scarlet, it would look so
romantic and pretty; but Archie only laughed, and said he would not
feel at home in such finery, and his "Eider Duck"-as he sometimes
called the pony--would not know him.  "Besides, Elsie," he said,
"lying down among straw with scarlets on wouldn't improve them."

But old Kate had given him a birthday present of a little Scotch
Glengarry cap with a real eagle's feather, and he always wore this in
the hunting-field.  He did so for two reasons; first, it pleased old
Kate; and, secondly, the cap stuck to his head; no breeze could blow
it off.

It was not long before Archie was known in the field as the "Little
Demon Huntsman."  And, really, had you seen Scallowa and he
feathering across a moor, his bonnet on the back of his head, and the
pony's immense mane blowing straight back in the wind, you.  would
have thought the title well earned.  In a straight run the pony could
not keep up with the long-legged horses; but Archie and he could dash
through a wood, and even swim streams, and take all manner of short
cuts, so that he was always in at the death.

The most remarkable trait in Archie's riding was that he could take
flying leaps from heights: only a Shetland pony could have done this.
Archie knew every yard of country, and he rather liked heading his
Lilliputian nag right away for a knoll or precipice, and bounding off
it like a roebuck or Scottish deerhound.  The first time he was
observed going straight for a bank of this kind he created quite a
sensation.  "The boy will be killed!" was the cry, and every lady
then drew rein and held her breath.

Away went Scallowa, and they were on the bank in the air, and landed
safely, and away again in less time that it takes me to tell of the
exploit.