But soon the kangaroos themselves began to appear thick and fast.
They came from one part or another in little groups, meeting and
hopping about in wonder and fright.  They seemed only looking for a
means of escape; and at times, as a few rushing from one direction
met others, they appeared to consult.  Many stood high up, as if on
tiptoe, gazing eagerly around, with a curious mixture of bewilderment
and fright displayed on their simple but gentle faces.

They got small time to think now, however, for men and dogs were on
them, and the flight and the murder commenced with a vengeance.
There were black fellows there, who appeared to spring suddenly from
the earth, spear-armed, to deal terrible destruction right and left
among the innocent animals.  And black women too, who seemed to revel
in the bloody sight.  If the whites were excited and thirsty for
carnage, those aborigines were doubly so.

Meanwhile the men had dismounted, Archie and Harry among the rest,
and were firing away as quickly as possible.  There is one thing to
be said in favour of the gunners; they took good aim, and there was
little after-motion in the body of the kangaroo in which a bullet had
found a billet.

After all Archie was neither content with the sport, nor had it come
up as yet to his _beau ideal_ of adventure from all he had heard and
read of it.  The scene was altogether noisy, wild, and confusing.
The blacks gloated in the bloodshed, and Archie did not love them any
the more for it.  It was the first time he had seen those fellows
using their spears, and he could guess from the way they handled or
hurled them that they would be pretty dangerous enemies to meet face
to face in the plain or scrub.

"Harry," he said after a time, "I'm getting tired of all this; let us
go to our horses."

"I'm tired too.  Hallo! where is the chick-a-biddy?"

"You mean Miss Winslow, Harry."

"Ay, Johnnie."

"I have not seen her for some time."

They soon found her though, near a bit of scrub, where their own
horses were tied.

She was sitting on her saddle, looking as steady and demure as an
equestrian statue.  The sunshine was so blinding that they did not at
first notice her in the shade there until they were close upon her.

"What, Etheldene!" cried Archie; "we hardly expected you here."

"Where, then?"

"Following the hounds."

"What! into that mob?  No, that is not what I came for."

At that moment Craig rode up.

"So glad," he said, "to find you all here.  Mount, gentlemen.  Are
you ready, Baby?"

"Ready, yes, an hour ago, Craig."

They met horsemen and hounds not far away, and taking a bold detour
over a rough and broken country, at the edge of a wood, the hounds
found a "forester," or old man kangaroo.  The beast had a good start
if he had taken the best advantage of it; but he failed to do so.  He
had hesitated several times; but the run was a fine one.  A wilder,
rougher, more dangerous ride Archie had never taken.

The beast was at bay before very long, and his resistance to the
death was extraordinary.

They had many more rides before the day was over; and when they
re-assembled in farmer Findlayson's hospitable parlour, Archie was
fain for once to own himself not only tired, but "dead beat."

The dinner was what Harry called a splendid spread.  Old Findlayson
had been a gardener in his younger days in England, and his wife was
a cook; and one of the results of this amalgamation was, dinners or
breakfasts either, that had already made the Scotchman famous.

Here was soup that an epicure would not have despised, fish to tempt
a dying man, besides game of different kinds, pies, and last, if not
least, steak of kangaroo.

The soup itself was made from the tail of the kangaroo, and I know
nothing more wholesome and nourishing, though some may think it a
little strong.