Gentleman Craig was most deferential and attentive to Mrs. Broadbent,
and she could not help admiring him--indeed, no one could--and quite
approved of Elsie's choice; though, mother-like, she thought the girl
far too young to marry yet, as the song says.

However, they were not to be married yet quite.  There was a year to
elapse, and a busy one it was.  First and foremost, Craig took the
unfortunate Findlayson's farm.  But the old steading was allowed to
go to decay, and some one told me the other day that there is now a
genuine ghost, said to be seen on moonlight nights, wandering round
the ruined pile.  Anyhow, its associations were of far too terrible a
character for Craig to think of building near it.

He chose the site for his house and outbuildings near the creek and
the spot where they had bivouaced before the murder was discovered.
It was near here too that Craig had made his firm resolve to be a
free man--made it and kept it.  The spot was charmingly beautiful
too; and as his district included a large portion of the forest, he
commenced clearing that, but in so scientific and tasteful a manner
that it looked, when finished, like a noble park.

During this year Squire Broadbent also became a squatter.  From
Squire to Squatter may sound to some like a come-down in life; but
really Broadbent did not think so.

He managed to buy out a station immediately adjoining Archie's, and
when he had got fairly established thereon he told his brother Ramsay
that fifteen years had tumbled off his shoulders all in a
lump--fifteen years of care and trouble, fifteen years of struggle to
keep his head above water, and live up to his squiredom.

"I'm more contented now by far and away," he told his wife, "than I
was in the busy, boastful days before the fire at Burley Old Farm;
so, you see, it doesn't take much in this world to make a man happy."

Rupert did not turn squatter, but missionary.  It was a great treat
for him to have Etheldene to ride with him away out into the bush
whenever he heard a tribe had settled down anywhere for a time.
Etheldene knew all their ways, and between the two of them they no
doubt did much good.

It is owing to such earnest men as Rupert that so great a change has
come over the black population, and that so many of them, even as I
write, sit humbly at the feet of Jesus, clothed and in their right
mind.  To quote the words of a recent writer: "The war-paints and
weapons for fights are seen no more, the awful heathen corroborees
have ceased, the females are treated with kindness, and the
lamentable cries, accompanied by bodily injuries, when death
occurred, have given place to Christian sorrow and quiet tears for
their departed friends."

It came to pass one day that Etheldene and Archie, towards the end of
the year, found themselves riding alone, through scrub and over
plain, just as they were that day they were lost.  The conversation
turned round to Rupert's mission.

"What a dear, good, young man your brother is, Archie!" said the girl.

"Do you really love him?"

"As a brother, yes."

"Etheldene, have him for a brother, will you?"

The rich blood mounted to her cheeks and brow.  She cast one
half-shy, half-joyful look at Archie, and simply murmured, "Yes."

It was all over in a moment then.  Etheldene struck her horse lightly
across the crest with the handle of her stock-whip, and next minute
both horses were galloping as if for dear life.

When Archie told Rupert how things had turned out, he only smiled in
his quiet manner.

"It is a queer way of wooing," he said; "but then you were always a
queer fellow, Archie, and Etheldene is a regular Bush baby, as Craig
calls her.  Oh, I knew long ago she loved you!"

At the year's end then both Elsie and Etheldene were married, and
married, too, at the same church in Sydney from which Bob led Sarah,
his blushing bride.  It might not have been quite so wild and daft a
wedding, but it was a very happy one nevertheless.

No one was more free in blessing the wedded couples than old Kate.
Yes, old as she was, she had determined not to be left alone in
England.

We know how Bob spent his honeymoon.  How were the new young folks to
spend theirs?  Oh, it was all arranged beforehand!  And on the very
morning of the double marriage they embarked--Harry and Bob going
with them for a holiday--on board Captain Vesey's pretty yacht, and
sailed away for England.  Etheldene's dream of romance was about to
become a reality; she was not only to visit the land of chivalry, but
with Archie her husband and hero by her side.