"And now, captain, you must promise to run down, and see us all in
the Bush.  We're a jolly nice family party, I can assure you."

"I promise, my boy, right heartily.  I hope to be back in Brisbane in
six months.  Expect to see me then."

They dined together, and spent the evening talking of old times, and
planning all that they would do when they met.

Next day they parted.

* * * * * *

The end of this spring was remarkable for floods.  Never before had
our heroes seen such storms of ram, often accompanied with thunder
and lightning.  Archie happened to be out in the forest when it first
came on.

It had been a hot, still, sulphurous morning, which caused even the
pet kangaroo to lie panting on his side.  Then a wind came puffing
and roaring through the trees in uncertain gusts, shaking the hanging
curtains of climbing plants, rustling and rasping among the side-long
leaved giant gums, tearing down tree ferns and lovely orchids, and
scattering the scented bloom of the wattle in every direction.

With the wind came the clouds, and a darkness that could be felt.

Then down died the fitful breeze, and loud and long roared and
rattled the thunder, while the blinding lightning seemed everywhere.
It rushed down the darkness in rivers like blood, it glanced and
glimmered on the pools of water, and zigzagged through the trees.
From the awful hurtling of the thunder one would have thought every
trunk and stem were being rent and riven in pieces.

Tell--the horse--seemed uneasy, so Archie made for home.  The rain
had come on long before he reached the creek, but the stream was
still fordable.

But see!  He is but half-way across when, in the interval between the
thunder peals, he can hear a steady rumbling roar away up the creek
and gulley, but coming closer and closer every moment.

On, on, on, good Tell!  Splash through that stream quicker than ever
you went before, or far down the country to-morrow morning two
swollen corpses will be seen floating on the floods!

Bewildered by the dashing rain, and the mist that rose on every side,
Archie and his trusty steed had but reached high ground when down
came the bore.

A terrible sight, though but dimly seen.  Fully five feet high, it
seemed to carry everything before it.  Alas!  for flocks and herds.
Archie could see white bodies and black, tumbling and trundling along
in the rolling "spate."

The floods continued for days.  And when they abated then losses
could be reckoned.  Though dead cattle and sheep now lay in dozens
about the flat lands near the creek, only a small percentage of them
belonged to Burley.

Higher up Findlayson had suffered, and many wild cattle helped to
swell the death bill.

But it was bad enough.

However, our young squatters were not the men to sit down to cry over
spilt milk.

The damage was repaired, and the broken dams were made new again.
And these last were sadly wanted before the summer went past.  For it
was unusually hot, the sun rising in a cloudless sky, blazing down
all day steadily, and setting without even a ray being intercepted by
a cloud.

[Illustration: "Bush fires were not now infrequent.  One of the
strangest sights in connection with it was the wild stampede of the
panic-stricken kangaroos and bush horses."]

Bush fires were not now infrequent.  While travelling in a distant
part of the selection, far to the west, in company with Craig, whom
he had come to visit, they were witnesses to a fire of this sort that
had caught a distant forest.  Neither pen nor pencil could do justice
to such a scene.  Luckily it was separated from the Burley estate by
a deep ravine.  One of the strangest sights in connection with it was
the wild stampede of the panic-stricken kangaroos and bush horses.

To work in the fields was now to work indeed.  Bob's complexion and
Archie's were "improved" to a kind of brick-red hue, and even Harry
got wondrously tanned.  There was certainly a great saving in clothes
that year, for excepting light, broad-brimmed hats, and shirts and
trousers, nothing else was worn by the men.