Archie never let any man know when he was angry; but they knew
afterwards, however, that he had been so from the consequences.  Yet
with all his strictness he was kind-hearted, and very just.  He had
the happy gift of being able to put himself in the servant's place
while judging betwixt man and master.

Communications were constantly kept up between the station and the
railway, by means of waggons, or drays and saddle-horses.  Among the
servants were several young blacks.  These were useful in many ways,
and faithful enough; but required keeping in their places.  To be in
any way familiar with them was to lose their respect, and they were
not of much consequence after that.  When completed, the homestead
itself was certainly not devoid of comfort, though everything was of
the homeliest construction; for no large amount of money was spent in
getting it up.  A Scotchman would describe it as consisting of "twa
butts and a ben," with a wing at the back.  The capital letter L,
laid down longways thus will give you some notion of its shape.
There were two doors in front, and four windows, and a backdoor in
the after wing, also having windows.  The wing portion of the house
contained the kitchen and general sitting-room; the right hand
portion the best rooms, ladies' room included, but a door and passage
communicated with these and the kitchen.

This house was wholly built of sawn wood, but finished inside with
lath and plaster, and harled outside, so that when roofed over with
those slabs of wood, such as we see some old-English church steeples
made of, called "shingles," the building was almost picturesque.  All
the more so because it was built on high ground, and trees were left
around and near it.

The kitchen and wing were _par excellence_ the bachelor apartments,
of an evening at all events.

Every thing that was necessary in the way of furnishing found its way
into the homestead of Burley New Farm; but nothing else, with the
exception of that of the guests'-room.  Of this more anon.

The living-house was completed first; but all the time that this was
being built men were very busy on the clearings, and the sites were
mapped out for the large wool-shed, with huge adjoining yards, where
the sheep at shearing-time would be received and seen to.

There were also the whole paraphernalia and buildings constituting
the cattle and horse-yards, a killing and milking-yard; and behind
these were slab huts, roofed with huge pieces of bark, rudely but
most artistically fixed, for the men.

These last had fire-places, and though wholly built of wood, there
was no danger of fire, the chimneys being of stone.

Most of the yards and outhouses were separate from each other, and
the whole steading was built on elevated ground, the store-hut being
not far from the main or dwelling-house.

I hardly know what to liken the contents of this store, or the inside
of the place itself, to.  Not unlike perhaps the half-deck or
fore-cabin of a Greenland ship on the day when stores are being doled
out to the men.  Or, to come nearer home, if ever the reader has been
in a remote and rough part of our own country, say Wales or Scotland,
where gangs of navvies have been encamped for a time, at a spot where
a new line of railway is being pushed through a gully or glen.

Just take a peep inside.  There is a short counter of the rudest
description, on which stand scales and weights, measures and knives.
Larger scales stand on the floor, and everywhere around you are heaps
of stores, of every useful kind you could possibly name or imagine,
and these are best divided into four classes--eatables, wearables,
luxuries, and tools.

Harry is at home here, and he has managed to infuse a kind of
regularity into the place, and takes a sort of pride in knowing where
all his wares are stored.  The various departments are kept separate.
Yonder, for instance, stand the tea, coffee, and cocoa-nibs, and near
them the sugar of two kinds, the bags of flour, the cheeses (in
boxes), the salt (in casks), soda, soap, and last, but not least, the
tobacco and spirits; this last in a place by vtself, and well out of
harm's way.  Then there is oil and candles--by-and-bye they will make
these on the farm--matches--and this brings us to the
luxuries--mustard, pepper of various sorts, vinegar, pickles, curry,
potted salmon, and meats of many lands, and bags of rice.  Next there
is a small store of medicines of the simplest, not to say roughest,
sorts, both for man and beast, and rough bandages of flannel and
cotton, with a bundle of splints.

Then comes clothing of all kinds--hats, shirts, jackets, boots,
shoes, &c.  Then tools and cooking utensils; and in a private
cupboard, quite away in a corner, the ammunition.

It is unnecessary to add that harness and horse-shoes found a place
in this store, or that a desk stood in one corner where account-books
were kept, for the men did not invariably pay down on the nail.