"How glad my mother will be!" said Bob.

And now they came in sight of the cottage, and Bob rubbed his eyes
and looked again and again, for no smoke came from the chimney, no
signs of life was about.

The icicles hung long and strong from the eaves, one side of the hut
was entirely overblown with drift, and the door in the other looked
more like the entrance to some cave in Greenland north.  Bad enough
this was; but ah, in the inside of the poor little house the driven
snow met them as they pushed open the door!  It had blown down the
wide chimney, covered the hearth, formed a wreath like a sea-wave on
the floor, and even o'er-canopied the bed itself.  And the widow, the
mother, lay underneath.  No, not dead; she breathed, at least.

[Illustration: "The icicles hung long and strong from the eaves; and
the door looked more like the entrance to some cave in Greenland
north.  Bad enough this was; but ah, in the inside of the poor little
house the driven snow met them as they pushed open the door!"]

When the room had been cleared and swept of snow; when a roaring fire
had been built on the hearth, and a little warm tea poured gently
down her throat, she came gradually back again to life, and in a
short time was able to be lifted into a sitting position, and then
she recognized her son and Archie.

"Oh, mother, mother!" cried Bob, the tears streaming over his
sun-browned face, "the Maker'll never forgive me for all the ill I've
done ye."

"Hush!  Bobbie, hush!  What, lad, the Maker no' forgive ye!  Eh, ye
little know the grip o' His goodness!  But you're here, you're
innocent.  Thank Him for that."

"Ye'll soon get better, mother, and I'll be so good.  The Squire is
to give me work too."

"It's o'er late for me," she said.  "I'd like to live to see it, but
His will be done."

Archie rode home the giant hunter, but in two hours he was once more
mounted on Scallowa, and feathering back through the snow towards the
little cottage.  The moon had risen now, and the night was starry and
fine.  He tied Scallowa up in the peat shed, and went in unannounced.

He found Bob Cooper sitting before the dying embers of the fire, with
his face buried in his hands, and rocking himself to and fro.

"She--just blessed me and wore away."

That was all he said or could say.  And what words of comfort could
Archie speak?  None.  He sat silently beside him all that livelong
night, only getting up now and then to replenish the fire.  But the
poacher scarcely ever changed his position, only now and then he
stretched out one of his great hands and patted Archie's knee as one
would pet a dog.

A week passed away, and the widow was laid to rest beneath the frozen
ground in the little churchyard by the banks of the river.  Archie
went slowly back with Bob towards the cottage.  On their way thither,
the poacher--poacher now no more though--entered a plantation, and
with his hunting-knife cut and fashioned a rough ash stick.

"We'll say good-bye here, Master Archie."

"What!  You are not going back with me to Burley Old Farm?"

Bob took a small parcel from his pocket, and opening it exposed the
contents.

"Do you know them, Master Archie?"

"Yes, your poor mother's glasses."

"Ay, lad, and as long as I live I'll keep them.  And till my dying
day, Archie, I'll think on you, and your kindness to poor poacher
Bob.  No, I'm not goin' back to Burley, and I'm not going to the
cottage again.  I'm going away.  Where?  I couldn't say.  Here,
quick, shake hands, friend.  Let it be over.  Good-bye."

"Good-bye."

And away went Bob.  He stopped when a little way off, and turned as
if he had forgotten something.

"Archie!" he cried.

"Yes, Bob."

"Take care of my mother's cat."