"I wonder," said Elsie with a gentle sigh, and a long look at the
fire, "when we may expect to hear from Archie again.  Dear me, what a
long, long time it is since he went away!  Let me see, Rupert, it is
going on for six years, isn't it?"

"Yes.  Archie must be quite a man by now."

"He's all right," said the Squire.

"That he is, I know," said Uncle Ramsay.

"He's in God's good hands," said the mother, but her glasses were so
moist she had to take them off to wipe them; "he is in God's good
hands, and all we can do now is to pray for him."

Two little taps at the green-parlour door and enter the maid, not
looking much older, and not less smart, than when last we saw her.

"If you please, sir, there's a gentleman in the study as would like
to see you."

"Oh," she added, with a little start, "here he comes!"

And there he came certainly.

"God bless all here!" he cried heartily.

"What," exclaimed the Squire, jumping up and holding out his hand,
"my dear old friend Venturesome Vesey!"

"Yes, Yankee Charlie, and right glad I am to see you."

"My wife and children, Vesey.  Though you and I have often met in
town since my marriage, you've never seen them before.  My brother,
whom you know."

Vesey was not long in making himself one of the family circle, and he
gave his promise to stay at Burley Old Farm for a week at least.

Rupert and Elsie took to him at once.  How could they help it? a
sailor and gentleman, and a man of the world to boot.  Besides,
coming directly from Archie.

"I just popped into the house the very morning after he had written
the letter I now hand to you," said Captain Vesey.  "He had an idea
it would be safer for me to bring it.  Well, here it is; and I'm
going straight away out to the garden to smoke a pipe under the moon
while you read it.  Friend as I am of Archie's, you must have the
letter all to yourselves;" and away went Vesey.

"Send for old Kate and Branson," cried the Squire, and they
accordingly marched in all expectancy.

Then the father unfolded the letter with as much reverence almost as
if it had been Foxe's Book of Martyrs.

Every eye was fixed upon him as he slowly read it.  Even Bounder, the
great Newfoundland, knew something unusual was up, and sat by Elsie
all the time.


ARCHIE'S LETTER HOME.

"MY DEAREST MOTHER,--It is to you I write first, because I know that
a proposal I have to make will 'take you aback,' as my friend Winslow
would say.  I may as well tell you what it is at once, because, if I
don't, your beloved impatience will cause you to skip all the other
parts of the letter till you come to it.  Now then, my own old mummy,
wipe your spectacles all ready, catch hold of the arm of your chair
firmly, and tell Elsie to 'stand by'--another expression of
Winslow's--the smelling-salts bottle.  Are you all ready?  Heave oh!
then.  I'm going to ask you to let Rupert and Elsie come out to me
here.

"Have you fainted, mummy?  Not a bit of it; you're my own brave
mother!  And don't you see that this will be only the beginning of
the end?  And a bright, happy end, mother, I'm looking forward to its
being.  It will be the reunion of us all once more; and if we do not
live quite under one roof, as in the dear old days at Burley Old
Farm, we will live in happy juxtaposition.

"'What!' you cry, 'deprive me of my children?'  It is for your
children's good, mummy.  Take Rupert first.  He is not strong now,
but he is young.  If he comes at once to this glorious land of ours,
on which I am quite enthusiastic, he will get as hardy as a New
Hollander in six months' time.  Wouldn't you like to see him with
roses on his face, mother, and a brow as brown as a postage stamp?
Send him out.  Would you like him to have a frame of iron, with
muscles as tough as a mainstay?  Send him out.  Would you like him to
be as full of health as an egg is full of meat? and so happy that he
would have to get up at nights to sing?  Then send him here.