Where should he communicate?  And this was his father's best friend,
from whom the too sanguine father expected Archie would have an
invitation to dinner at once, and a general introduction to Sydney
society.

"Oh, it is no great matter about communicating, Mr. Berry; aw!--no
matter at all!  I can afford to wait a bit and look round me.
I--aw!--good morning, sir."

Away stalked the young Northumbrian, like a prince of the blood.

"A chip of the old block," muttered Mr. Berry, as he resumed his desk
work.  "Poor lad, he'll have to come down a peg though."

The cabby sprang towards the young nob.

"Where next, sir?"

"Grindlay's."

Archie was not more successful here, nor anywhere else.

But at the end of a week, during which time he had tried as hard as
any young man had ever tried before in Sydney or any other city to
find some genteel employment, he made a wise resolve; viz., to go
into lodgings.

He found that living in a hotel, though very cheerful, made a
terrible hole in his purse; so he brought himself "down a peg" by the
simple process of "going up" nearer the sky.

Here is the explanation of this paradox.  It was Archie's custom to
spend his forenoons looking for something to do, and his evenings
walking in the suburbs.

Poor, lonely lad, that never a soul in the city cared for, any more
than if he had been a stray cat, he found it wearisome,
heart-breaking work wandering about the narrow, twisting streets and
getting civilly snubbed.  He felt more of a gentleman when dining.
Afterwards his tiredness quite left him, and hope swelled his heart
once more.  So out he would go and away--somewhere, anywhere; it did
not matter so long as he could see woods, and water, and houses.  Oh,
such lovely suburban villas, with cool verandahs, round which
flowering creepers twined, and lawns shaded by dark green waving
banana trees, beneath which he could ofttimes hear the voices of
merry children, or the tinkle of the light guitar.  He would give
reins to his fancy then, and imagine things--such sweet things!

Yes, he would own one of the biggest and most delightful of these
mansions; he should keep fleet horses, a beautiful carriage, a
boat--he must have a boat, or should it be a gondola?  Yes, that
would be nicer and newer.  In this boat, when the moonlight silvered
the water, he would glide over the bay, returning early to his happy
home.  His bonnie sister should be there, his brother Rupert--the
student--his mother, and his hero, that honest, bluff, old father of
his.  What a dear, delightful dream!  No wonder he did not care to
return to the realities of his city life till long after the sun had
set over the hills, and the stars were twinkling down brighter and
lovelier far than those lights he had so admired the night his ship
arrived.

He was returning slowly one evening and was close to the city, but in
a rather lonely place, when he noticed something dark under the shade
of a tree, and heard a girl's voice say:

"Dearie me! as missus says; but ain't I jolly tired just!"

"Who is that?" said Archie.

"On'y me, sir; on'y Sarah.  Don't be afear'd.  I ain't a larrikin.
Help this 'ere box on my back like a good chummie."

"It's too heavy for your slight shoulders," quoth gallant Archie.  "I
don't mind carrying it a bit."

"What, a gent like you!  Why, sir, you're greener than they make 'em
round here!"

"I'm from England."

"Ho, ho!  Well, that accounts for the milk.  So 'm I from Hengland.
This way, chummie."

They hadn't far to go.

"My missus lives two story up, top of a ware'us, and I've been to the
station for that 'ere box.  She do take it out o' me for all the
wage.  She do."

Archie carried the box up the steep stairs, and Sarah's mistress
herself opened the door and held a candle.  A thin, weary-looking
body, with whom Sarah seemed to be on the best and most friendly
terms.