"Then I'm going to begin.  Rupert and Elsie will be the first roots.
Roup isn't over strong yet.  This country will make a man of him.
Bob and you, Harry, can go to bed as soon as you like.  I'm going out
to think and walk about a bit.  Stick another log or two on the fire,
and as soon as you have all turned in I'll write a letter home.  I'll
begin the uprooting, though it does seem cruel to snap old ties."

"Well," said Harry, "thank goodness, I've got no ties to snap.  And I
think with you, Archie, that the old country isn't a patch on the
new.  Just think o' the London fogs.  You mind them, Sarah."

"I does, 'Arry."

"And the snow."

"And the slush, 'Arry."

"And the drizzle."

"And the kitchen beetles, boy.  It would take a fat little lot to
make me go back out o' the sunshine.  Here's the coffee."

"Keep mine hot, Sarah."

Away went Archie out into the night, out under the stars, out in the
falling dew, and his kangaroo went jumping and hopping after him.

The sky was very bright and clear to-night, though fleece-shaped,
snow-white clouds lay low on the horizon, and the moon was rising
through the distant woods, giving the appearance of some gigantic
fire as its beams glared red among the topmost branches.

There was the distant howling or yelling of dingoes, and the low,
half-frightened bleat of sheep, and there was the rippling murmur of
the stream not far off, but all else was still.

It was two hours before Archie found his way back.  The kangaroo saw
him to the door, then went off to curl up in the shed till the hot
beams of the morning sun should lure him forth to breakfast.

And all alone sat Archie, by the kitchen table, writing a letter home
by the light of candles made on the steading.

It was very still now in the house--only the ticking of the clock,
the occasional whirr of some insect flying against the window,
anxious to come into the light and warmth and scratching of the young
man's pen.

Surely the dog knew that Archie was writing home, for presently he
got slowly up from his corner and came and leant his head on his
master's knee, in that wise and kindly way collies have of showing
their thoughts and feelings.  Archie must leave off writing for a
moment to smooth and pet the honest "bawsent" head.

Now it would be very easy for us to peep over Archie's shoulder and
read what he was writing, but that would be rude; anything rather
than rudeness and impoliteness.  Rather, for instance, let us take a
voyage across the wide, terribly wide ocean, to pay a visit to Burley
Old Farm, and wait till the letter comes.

* * * * * *

"I wonder," said Elsie with a gentle sigh, and a long look at the
fire, "when we may expect to hear from Archie again.  Dear me, what a
long, long time it is since he went away!  Let me see, Rupert, it is
going on for six years, isn't it?"

"Yes.  Archie must be quite a man by now."

"He's all right," said the Squire.

"That he is, I know," said Uncle Ramsay.

"He's in God's good hands," said the mother, but her glasses were so
moist she had to take them off to wipe them; "he is in God's good
hands, and all we can do now is to pray for him."

Two little taps at the green-parlour door and enter the maid, not
looking much older, and not less smart, than when last we saw her.

"If you please, sir, there's a gentleman in the study as would like
to see you."

"Oh," she added, with a little start, "here he comes!"

And there he came certainly.

"God bless all here!" he cried heartily.

"What," exclaimed the Squire, jumping up and holding out his hand,
"my dear old friend Venturesome Vesey!"