"Brought my young man," said Sarah.  "Ain't he a smartie?  But,
heigho! so green!  You never!"

"Come in a minute, sir, and rest you.  Never mind this silly girl."

Archie did go in a minute; five, ten, ay fifteen, and by that time he
had not only heard all this ex-policeman's wife's story, but taken a
semi-attic belonging to her.

And he felt downright independent and happy when next day he took
possession.

For now he would have time to really look round, and it was a relief
to his mind that he would not be spending much money.

Archie could write home cheerfully now.  He was sure that something
would soon turn up, something he could accept, and which would not be
derogatory to the son of a Northumbrian squire.  More than one
influential member of commercial society had promised "to communicate
with him at the very earliest moment."

But, alas! weeks flew by, and weeks went into months, and no more
signs of the something were apparent than he had seen on the second
day of his arrival.

Archie was undoubtedly "a game un," as Sarah called him; but his
heart began to feel very heavy indeed.

Living as cheaply as he could, his money would go done at last.  What
then?  Write home for more?  He shuddered to think of such a thing.
If his first friend, Captain Vesey, had only turned up now, he would
have gone and asked to be taken as a hand before the mast.  But
Captain Vesey did not.

A young man cannot be long in Sydney without getting into a set.
Archie did, and who could blame him.  They were not a rich set, nor a
very fast set; but they had a morsel of a club-room of their own.
They formed friendships, took strolls together, went occasionally to
the play, and often had little "adventures" about town, the
narratives of which, when retailed in the club, found ready
listeners, and of course were stretched to the fullest extent of
importance.

They really were not bad fellows, and would have done Archie a good
turn if they could.  But they could not.  They laughed a deal at
first at his English notions and ideas; but gradually Archie got over
his greenness, and began to settle down to colonial life, and would
have liked Sydney very much indeed if he had only had something to do.

The ex-policeman's wife was very kind to her lodger.  So was Sarah;
though she took too many freedoms of speech with him, which tended to
lower his English squirearchical dignity very much.  But, to do her
justice, Sarah did not mean any harm.

Only once did Archie venture to ask about the ex-policeman.  "What
did he do?"

"Oh, he drinks!" said Sarah, as quietly as if drinking were a trade
of some kind.  Archie asked no more.

Rummaging in a box one day, Archie found his last letter of
introduction.  It had been given him by Uncle Ramsay.

"You'll find him a rough and right sort of a stick," his uncle had
said.  "He was my steward, now he is a wealthy man, and can knock
down his cheque for many thousands."

Archie dressed in his best and walked right away that afternoon to
find the address.

It was one of the very villas he had often passed, in a beautiful
place close by the water-side.

What would be his reception here?

This question was soon put at rest.

He rang the bell, and was ushered into a luxuriously-furnished room;
a room that displayed more richness than taste.

A very beautiful girl--some thirteen years of age perhaps--got up
from a grand piano, and stood before him.

Archie was somewhat taken aback, but bowed as composedly as he could.

"Surely," he thought, "she cannot be the daughter of the rough and
right sort of a stick who had been steward to his uncle.  He had
never seen so sweet a face, such dreamy blue eyes, or such wealth of
hair before.