"Yes, Yankee Charlie, and right glad I am to see you."

"My wife and children, Vesey.  Though you and I have often met in
town since my marriage, you've never seen them before.  My brother,
whom you know."

Vesey was not long in making himself one of the family circle, and he
gave his promise to stay at Burley Old Farm for a week at least.

Rupert and Elsie took to him at once.  How could they help it? a
sailor and gentleman, and a man of the world to boot.  Besides,
coming directly from Archie.

"I just popped into the house the very morning after he had written
the letter I now hand to you," said Captain Vesey.  "He had an idea
it would be safer for me to bring it.  Well, here it is; and I'm
going straight away out to the garden to smoke a pipe under the moon
while you read it.  Friend as I am of Archie's, you must have the
letter all to yourselves;" and away went Vesey.

"Send for old Kate and Branson," cried the Squire, and they
accordingly marched in all expectancy.

Then the father unfolded the letter with as much reverence almost as
if it had been Foxe's Book of Martyrs.

Every eye was fixed upon him as he slowly read it.  Even Bounder, the
great Newfoundland, knew something unusual was up, and sat by Elsie
all the time.


ARCHIE'S LETTER HOME.

"MY DEAREST MOTHER,--It is to you I write first, because I know that
a proposal I have to make will 'take you aback,' as my friend Winslow
would say.  I may as well tell you what it is at once, because, if I
don't, your beloved impatience will cause you to skip all the other
parts of the letter till you come to it.  Now then, my own old mummy,
wipe your spectacles all ready, catch hold of the arm of your chair
firmly, and tell Elsie to 'stand by'--another expression of
Winslow's--the smelling-salts bottle.  Are you all ready?  Heave oh!
then.  I'm going to ask you to let Rupert and Elsie come out to me
here.

"Have you fainted, mummy?  Not a bit of it; you're my own brave
mother!  And don't you see that this will be only the beginning of
the end?  And a bright, happy end, mother, I'm looking forward to its
being.  It will be the reunion of us all once more; and if we do not
live quite under one roof, as in the dear old days at Burley Old
Farm, we will live in happy juxtaposition.

"'What!' you cry, 'deprive me of my children?'  It is for your
children's good, mummy.  Take Rupert first.  He is not strong now,
but he is young.  If he comes at once to this glorious land of ours,
on which I am quite enthusiastic, he will get as hardy as a New
Hollander in six months' time.  Wouldn't you like to see him with
roses on his face, mother, and a brow as brown as a postage stamp?
Send him out.  Would you like him to have a frame of iron, with
muscles as tough as a mainstay?  Send him out.  Would you like him to
be as full of health as an egg is full of meat? and so happy that he
would have to get up at nights to sing?  Then send him here.

"Take poor me next.  You've no notion how homesick I am; I'm dying to
see some of you.  I am making money fast, and I love my dear, free,
jolly life; but for all that, there are times that I would give up
everything I possess--health, and hopes of wealth--for sake of one
glance at your dear faces, and one run round Burley Old Farm with
father."

This part of Archie's letter told home.  There were tears in Mrs.
Broadbent's motherly eyes; and old Kate was heard to murmur, "Dear,
bonnie laddie!" and put her apron to her face.

"Then," the letter continued, "there is Elsie.  It would do her good
to come too, because--bless the lassie!--she takes her happiness at
second-hand; and knowing that she was a comfort to us boys, and made
everything cheery and nice, would cause her to be as jolly as the
summer's day is long or a gum tree high.  Then, mother, we three
should work together with only one intent--that of getting you and
father both out, and old Kate and Branson too.

"As for you, dad, I know you will do what is right; and see how good
it would be for us all to let Roup and Elsie come.  Then you must
remember that when we got things a bit straighter, we would expect
you and mother to follow.  You, dear dad, would have full scope here
for your inventive genius, and improvements that are thrown away in
England could be turned to profit out here.

"We would not go like a bull at a gate at anything, father; but what
we do want here is machinery, easily worked, for cutting up and
dealing with wood; for cutting up ground, and for destroying tree
stumps; and last, but not least, we want wells, and a complete system
of irrigation for some lands, that shall make us independent to a
great extent of the sparsely-failing rains of some seasons.  Of
course you could tell us something about sheep disease and cattle
plague, and I'm not sure you couldn't help us to turn the wild horses
to account, with which some parts of the interior swarm."