Archie was standing by her, the bridle of his own nag Tell thrown
carelessly over his arm; for good-byes were being said quite a mile
from the farm.

"I'll count the days, Etheldene, till you come again," said Archie.
"The place will not seem the same without you."

Craig stood respectfully aside till Archie had bade her adieu, then,
with his broad hat down by his side, he advanced.  He took her hand
and kissed it.

"Good-bye, Baby," he said.

There were tears in Etheldene's eyes as she rode away.  Big Winslow
took off his hat, waved it over his head, and gave voice to a
splendid specimen of a British cheer, which, I daresay, relieved his
feelings as much as it startled the lories.  The "boys" were not slow
in returning that cheer.  Then away rode the Winslows, and presently
the grey-stemmed gum trees swallowed them up.

* * * * * *

Two whole years passed by.  So quickly, too, because they had not
been idle years.  Quite the reverse of that, for every day brought
its own duties with it, and there was always something new to be
thought about or done.

One event had taken place which, in Bob's eyes, eclipsed all the
others--a little baby squatter saw the light of day.  But I should
not have used the word eclipsed.  Little "Putty-face," as Harry most
irreverently called her, did not eclipse anything; on the contrary,
everything grew brighter on her arrival, and she was hailed queen of
the station.  The news spread abroad like wildfire, and people came
from far and near to look at the wee thing, just as if a baby had
never been born in the Bush before.

Findlayson dug the child with his forefinger in the cheek, and nodded
and "a-goo-ed" to it, and it smiled back, and slobbered and grinned
and jumped.  Findlayson then declared it to be the wisest "wee vision
o' a thing the warld ever saw."  Sarah was delighted, so was the
nurse--a young sonsy Scotch lass brought to the station on purpose to
attend to baby.

"But," said Findlayson, "what about bapteezin' the blessed wee
vision."

"Oh," said Bob, "I've thought of that!  Craig and I are going to
Brisbane with stock, and we'll import a parson."

It so happened that a young missionary was on his way to spread the
glad tidings among the blacks, and it did not need much coaxing on
Bob's part to get him to make a detour, and spend a week at Burley
New Farm.  So this was the imported parson.

But being in Brisbane, Bob thought he must import something else,
which showed what a mindful father he was.

He had a look round, and a glance in at all the shop windows in Queen
Street, finally he entered an emporium that took his fancy.

"Ahem!" said Bob.  "I want a few toys."

"Yes, sir.  About what age, sir?"

"The newest and best you have."

"I didn't refer to the age of the toys," said the urbane shopkeeper,
with the ghost of a smile in his eye.  "I should have said, Toys
suitable for what age?"

"For every age," replied Bob boldly.

The shopkeeper then took the liberty of remarking that his visitor
must surely be blessed with a quiverful.

"I've only the one little girl," said Bob.  "She fills the book as
yet.  But, you see, we're far away in the Bush, and baby will grow
out of gum-rings and rattles, won't she, into dolls and dung-carts?
D' ye see?  D' ye understand?"

"Perfectly."

It ended in Bob importing not only the parson in a dray, but a box of
toys as big as a sea-chest, and only Bob himself could have told you
all that was in it.  That box would have stocked a toyshop itself and
Harry and Archie had the grandest of fun unpacking it, and both
laughed till they had to elevate their arms in the air to get the
stitches out of their sides.

The amusing part of it was that innocent Bob had bought such a lot of
each species.