XII.

_ON THE WAR TRAIL._

Twelve men all told to march against a tribe consisting probably of
over a hundred and fifty warriors, armed for the fight, and
intoxicated with their recent success!  It was a rash, an almost mad,
venture; but they did not for one moment dream of drawing back.  They
would trust to their own superior skill to beat the enemy; trust to
that fortune that so often favours the brave; trusting--many of them
I hope--to that merciful Providence who protects the weak, and who,
in our greatest hour of need, does not refuse to listen to our
pleadings.

They had ridden some little way in silence, when suddenly Archie drew
rein.

"Halt, men!" he cried.  "Halt for a moment and deliberate.  Who is to
be the commander of this little force?"

"Yourself," said Gentleman Craig, lifting his hat "You are boss of
Burley Farm, and Mr. Cooper's dearest friend."

"Hear, hear!" cried several of the others.

"Perhaps it is best," said Archie, after a moment's thoughtful pause,
"that I should take the leadership under the circumstances.  But,
Craig, I choose you as my second in command, and one whose counsel I
will respect and be guided by."

"Thank you," said Craig; "and to begin with, I move we go straight
back to Findlayson's farm.  We are not too well armed, nor too well
provisioned."

The proposal was at once adopted, and towards sundown they had once
more reached the outlying pastures.

They were dismounting to enter, when the half-naked figure of a black
suddenly appeared from behind the storehouse.

A gun or two was levelled at him at once.

"Stay," cried Craig.  "Do not fire.  That is Jacoby, the black
stockman, and one of poor Mr. Findlayson's chief men.  Ha, Jacoby,
advance my lad, and tell us all you know."

Jacoby's answer was couched in such unintelligible jargon--a mixture
of Bush English and broad Scotch--that I will not try the reader's
patience by giving it verbatim.  He was terribly excited, and looked
heart-broken with grief.  He had but recently come home, having
passed "plenty black-fellows" on the road.  They had attempted to
kill him, but here he was.

"Could he track them?"

"Yes, easily.  They had gone away there."  He pointed north and east
as he spoke.

"This is strange," said Craig.  "Men, if what Jacoby tells us be
correct, instead of retreating to their homes in the wilderness, the
blacks are doubling round; and if so, it must be their intention to
commit more of their diabolical deeds, so there is no time to be
lost."

It was determined first to bury their dear friends; and very soon a
grave was dug--a huge rough hole, that was all--and in it the
murdered whites were laid side by side.

Rupert repeated the burial-service, or as much of it as he could
remember; then the rude grave was filled, and as the earth fell over
the chest of poor old-fashioned Findlayson, and Archie thought of all
his droll and innocent ways, tears trickled over his face that he
made no attempt to hide.

The men hauled the gates of a paddock off its hinges, and piled wood
upon that, so that the wandering dingoes, with their friends the
rooks, should be baulked in their attempts to gorge upon the dead.

The blacks had evidently commenced to ransack the stores; but for
some reason or another had gone and left them mostly untouched.

Here were gunpowder and cartridges in abundance, and many dainty,
easily-carried foods, such as tinned meats and fish, that the unhappy
owner had evidently laid in for his friends.  So enough of everything
was packed away in the men's pockets or bags, and they were soon
ready once more for the road.

The horses must rest, however; for these formed the mainstay of the
little expedition.  The men too could not keep on all night without a
pause; so Archie and Craig consulted, and it was agreed to bivouac
for a few hours, then resume the journey when the moon should rise.