These questions, trifling though they may appear, really annoyed
Archie; but he erred on the right side, and did tip the waiter--well
too.  And the waiter brightened up, and asked him if he would like to
see a playbill.

Then this reminded Archie that he might as well call on some of the
people to whom he had introductions.  So he pulled out a small bundle
of letters, and he asked the waiter where this, that, and t'other
street was; and the waiter brought a map, and gave him so many hints,
that when he found himself on the street again he did not feel half
so foreign.  He had something to do now, something in view.  Besides
he had dined.

"Yes, he'd better drive," he said to himself, "it would look better."
He lifted a finger, and a hansom rattled along, and drew up by the
kerb.  He had not expected to find cabs in Sydney.  His card-case was
handy, and his first letter also.

He might have taken a 'bus or tram.  There were plenty passing, and
very like Glasgow 'buses they were too; from the John with the
ribbons to the cad at the rear.  But a hansom certainly looked more
aristocratic.  Aristocratic?  Yes.  But were there any aristocrats in
Sydney?  Was there any real blue blood in the place?  He had not
answered those questions to his satisfaction, when the hansom stopped
so suddenly that he fell forward.

"Wait," he said to the driver haughtily.

"Certainly, sir."

Archie did not observe, however, the grimace the Jehu made to another
cabman, as he pointed over his shoulder with his thumb, else he would
hardly have been pleased.

There was quite a business air about the office into which the young
man ushered himself, but no one took much notice of him.  If he had
had an older face under that brand-new hat, they might have been more
struck with his appearance.

"Ahem!  Aw!----" Archie began.

"One minute, sir," said the clerk nearest him.  "Fives in forty
thousand?  Fives in forty are eight--eight thousand."

The clerk advanced pen in mouth.

"Do you come from Jenkins's about those bills?"

"No, I come from England; and I've a letter of introduction to your
_master_."  Archie brought the last word out with a bang.

"Mr. Berry isn't in.  Will you leave a message?"

"No, thank you."

"As you please."

Archie was going off, when the clerk called after him, "Here is Mr.
Berry himself, sir."

A tall, brown-faced, elderly gentleman, with very white hair and
pleasant smile.  He took Archie into the office, bade him be seated,
and slowly read the letter; then he approached the young man and
shook hands.  The hand felt like a dead fish's tail in Archie's, and
somehow the smile had vanished.

"I'm really glad to see your father's son," he said.  "Sorry though
to hear that he has had a run of bad luck.  Very bad luck it must be,
too," he added, "to let you come out here."

"Indeed, sir; but I mean to make my for----that is, I want to make my
living."

"Ay, young man, living's more like it; and I wish I could help you.
There's a wave of depression over this side of our little island at
present, and I don't know that any office in town has a genteel
situation to offer you."

Archie's soul-heat sank a degree or two.

"You think, sir, that----"

"I think that you would have done better at home.  It would be cruel
of me not to tell you the truth.  Now I'll give you an example.  We
advertised for a clerk just a week since----"

"I wish I'd been here."

"My young friend, you wouldn't have had the ghost of a chance.  We
had five-and-thirty to pick and choose from, and we took the
likeliest.  I'm really sorry.  If anything should turn up, where
shall I communicate?"