Soon the blood ceased to flow, and Fuss licked his young master's
hands, and presently got down and ran around and wanted to go to
earth again; and though Archie felt he could never forgive himself
for his awkwardness, he was so happy to see that Fuss was not much
the worse after all.

But there would be no triumphant home-returning; he even began to
doubt if ever he would be a sportsman.  Then Branson consoled him,
and told him he himself didn't do any better when he first took to
the hill.

"It is well," said Mr. Walton, laughing, "that you didn't shoot me
instead."

"Ye--es," said Archie slowly, looking at Fuss.  It was evident he was
not quite convinced that Mr. Walton was right.

"Fuss is none the worse," cried Branson.  "Oh, I can tell you it does
these Scotch dogs good to have a drop or two of lead in them!  It
makes them all the steadier, you know."

About an hour after, to his exceeding delight, Archie shot a hare.
Oh joy!  Oh day of days!  His first hare!  He felt a man now, from
the top of his Astrachan cap to the toe caps of his shooting-boots.

Bounder picked it up, and brought it and laid it at Archie's feet.

"Good dog! you shall carry it."

Bounder did so most delightedly.

They stopped at an outlying cottage on their way home.  It was a
long, low, thatched building, close by a wood, a very humble dwelling
indeed.

A gentle-faced widow woman opened to their knock.  She looked scared
when she saw them, and drew back.

"Oh!" she said, "I hope Robert hasn't got into trouble again?"

"No, no, Mrs. Cooper, keep your mind easy, Bob's a' right at present.
We just want to eat our bit o' bread and cheese in your sheeling."

"And right welcome ye are, sirs.  Come in to the fire.  Here's a
broom to brush the snow fra your leggins."

Bounder marched in with the rest, with as much swagger and
independence as if the cottage belonged to him.  Mrs. Cooper's cat
determined to defend her hearth and home against such intrusion, and
when Bounder approached the former, she stood on her dignity, back
arched, tail erect, hair on end from stem to stern, with her ears
back, and green fire lurking in her eyes.  Bounder stood patiently
looking at her.  He would not put down the hare, and he could not
defend himself with it in his mouth; so he was puzzled.  Pussy,
however, brought matters to a crisis.  She slapped his face, then
bolted right up the chimney.  Bounder put down the hare now, and gave
a big sigh as he lay down beside it.

"No, Mrs. Cooper, Bob hasn't been at his wicked work for some time.
He's been gi'en someone else a turn I s'pose, eh?"

"Oh, sirs," said the widow, "it's no wi' my will he goes poachin'!
If his father's heid were above the sod he daren't do it.  But, poor
Bob, he's all I have in the world, and he works hard--sometimes."

Branson laughed.  It was a somewhat sarcastic laugh; and young Archie
felt sorry for Bob's mother, she looked so unhappy.

"Aye, Mrs. Cooper, Bob works hard sometimes, especially when settin'
girns for game.  Ha! ha!  Hullo!" he added, "speak of angels and they
appear.  Here comes Bob himself!"

Bob entered, looked defiantly at the keeper, but doffed his cap and
bowed to Mr. Walton and Archie.  "Mother," he said, "I'm going out."

"Not far, Bob, lad; denner's nearly ready."

Bob had turned to leave, but he wheeled round again almost fiercely.
He was a splendid young specimen of a Borderer, six feet if an inch,
and well-made to boot.  No extra flesh, but hard and tough as copper
bolts.  "Denner!" he growled.  "Aye, denner to be sure--taties and
salt!  Ha! and gentry live on the fat o' the land!  If I snare a
rabbit, if I dare to catch one o' God's own cattle on God's own
hills, I'm a felon; I'm to be taken and put in gaol--shot even if I
dare resist!  Yas, mother, I'll be in to denner," and away he strode.

"Potatoes and salt!"  Archie could not help thinking about that.  And
he was going away to his own bright home and to happiness.  He
glanced round him.  at the bare, clay walls, with their few bits of
daubs of pictures, and up at the blackened rafters, where a cheese
stood--one poor, hard cheese--and on which hung some bacon and
onions.  He could not repress a sigh, almost as heartfelt as that
which Bounder gave when he lay down beside the hare.