"Tell me your story: may I not hear it?"

"It is so long and, pardon me, so melancholy."

"Never mind, I will listen attentively."

Then Craig commenced.  He told her all the strange history of his
early demon-haunted life, about his recklessness, about his struggles
and his final victory over self.  He told her he verily did believe
that his mother's spirit was near him that night in the forest when
he made the vow which Providence in His mercy had enabled him to keep.

Yes, it was a long story.  The sun had gone down ere he had finished,
a crescent moon had appeared in the southern sky, and stars had come
out.  There was sweetness and beauty everywhere.  There was calm in
Craig's soul now.  For he had told Elsie something besides.  He had
told her that he had loved her from the first moment he had seen her,
and he had asked her in simple language to become his wife--to be his
guardian angel.

That same evening, when Archie came out into the garden, he found
Elsie still sitting by Craig's couch, but her hand was clasped in his.

Then Archie knew all, and a great, big sigh of relief escaped him,
for until this very moment he had been of opinion that Craig loved
Etheldene.

* * * * * *

In course of a few months Squire Broadbent was as good as his word.
He came out to the new land to give the Australians the benefit of
his genius in the farming way; to teach Young Australia a thing or
two it had not known before; so at least he thought.

With him came Mrs. Broadbent, and even Uncle Ramsay, and the day of
their arrival at Brisbane was surely a red-letter day in the annals
of that thriving and prosperous place.

Strange to say, however, none of the squatters from the Bush, none of
the speculating men, nor anybody else apparently, were very much
inclined to be lectured about their own country, and the right and
wrong way of doing things, by a Squire from the old country, who had
never been here before.  Some of them were even rude enough to laugh
in his face, but the Squire was not offended a bit.  He was on far
too good terms with himself for that, and too sure that he was in the
right in all he said.  He told some of these Bush farmers that if
_they_ did not choose to learn a wrinkle or two from him _he_ was not
the loser, with much more to the same purpose, all of which had about
the same effect on his hearers that rain has on a duck's back.

To use a rather hackneyed phrase, Squire Broadbent had the courage of
his convictions.

He settled quietly down at Burley New Farm, and commenced to study
Bush life in all its bearings.  It soon began to dawn upon him that
Australia was getting to be a great country, that she had a great
future before her, and that _he_--Squire Broadbent--would be
connected with it.  He was in no great hurry to invest, though
eventually he would.  It would be better to wait and watch.  There
was room enough and to spare for all at Archie's house, and that all
included honest Uncle Ramsay of course.  He and Winslow resumed
acquaintance, and in the blunt, straightforward ways of the man even
Squire Broadbent found a deal to admire and even to marvel at.

"He is a clever man," said the Squire to his brother; "a clever man
and a far-seeing.  He gets a wonderful grasp of financial matters in
a moment.  Depend upon it, brother, he is the right metal, and it is
upon solid stones like him that the future greatness of a nation
should be founded."

Uncle Ramsay said he himself did not know much about it.  He knew
more about ships, and was quite content to settle down at Brisbane,
and keep a morsel of a 20-tonner.  That was his ambition.

What a delight it was for Archie to have them all round his
breakfast-table in the green-parlour at Burley New Farm, or seated
out in the verandah all so home-like and happy.

His dear old mummy too, with her innocent womanly ways, delighted
with all she saw, yet half afraid of almost everything--half afraid
the monster gum-trees would fall upon her when out in the forest;
half afraid to put her feet firmly to the ground when walking, but
gathering up her skirts gingerly, and thinking every withered branch
was a snake; half afraid the howling dingoes would come down in force
at night, as wild wolves do on Russian wastes, and kill and eat
everybody; half afraid of the most ordinary good-natured-looking
black fellow; half afraid of even the pet kangaroo when he hopped
round and held up his chin to have his old-fashioned neck stroked;
half afraid--but happy, so happy nevertheless, because she had all
she loved around her.