When the ploughing time came round they gave him what is called in
the far North "a love-darg."  Men with teams of horses came from
every farm for miles around and tilled his ground.  They had luncheon
in a marquee, but they would not hear of stopping to dinner.  They
were indeed thoughtful and kind.

The parson of the parish and the doctor were particular friends of
the Squire.  They often dropped in of an evening to talk of old times
with the family by the fireside.

"I'm right glad," the doctor said one evening, "to see that you don't
lose heart, Squire."

"Bless me, sir, why should I?  To be sure we're poor now, but God has
left us a deal of comfort, doctor, and, after all, it doesn't take
much to make a man happy."

* * * * * *

Boys will be boys.  Yes, we all know that.  But there comes a time in
the life of every right-thinking lad when another truth strikes home
to him, that boys will be men.

I rather think that the sooner a boy becomes cognisant of this fact
the better.  Life is not all a dream; it must sooner or later become
a stern reality, life is not all pleasant parade and show, like a
field-day at Aldershot; no, for sooner or later pomp and panoply have
to be exchanged for camp-life and action, and bright uniforms are
either rolled in blood and dust, or come triumphant, though
tarnished, from the field of glory.  Life is not all plain sailing
over sunlit seas, for by-and-by the clouds bank up, storms come on,
and the good ship has to do battle with wind and wave.

But who would have it otherwise?  No one would who possesses the
slightest ray of honest ambition, or a single spark of that pride of
self which we need not blush to own.

One day, about the beginning of autumn, Rupert and Archie, and their
sister Elsie, were in the room in the tower.  They sat together in a
turret chamber, Elsie gazing dreamily from the window at the
beautiful scenery spread out beneath.  The woods and wilds, the
rolling hills, the silvery stream, the half-ripe grain moving in the
wind, as waves at sea move, and the silvery sunshine over al.  She
was in a kind of a daydream, her fingers listlessly touching a chord
on the harp now and then.  A pretty picture she looked, too, with her
bonnie brown hair, and her bonnie blue eyes, and thorough English
face, thorough English beauty.  Perhaps Archie had been thinking
something of this sort as he sat there looking at her, while Rupert
half-lay in the rocking-chair, which his brother had made for him,
engrossed as usual in a book.

Whether Archie did think thus or not, certain it is that presently he
drew his chair close to his sister's, and laying one arm fondly on
her shoulder.

"What is sissie looking at?" he asked.

"Oh, Archie," she replied, "I don't think I've been looking at
anything; but I've been seeing everything and wishing!"

"Wishing, Elsie?  Well, you don't look merry.  What were you wishing?"

"I was wishing the old days were back again, when--when father was
rich; before the awful fire came, and the plague, and everything.  It
has made us all old, I think.  Wouldn't you like father was rich
again?"

"I am not certain; but wishes are not horses, you know."

"No," said Elsie; "only if it could even be always like this, and if
you and Rupert and I could be always as we are now.  I think that,
poor though we are, everything just now is so pretty and so pleasant.
But you are going away to the university, and the place won't be the
same.  I shall get older faster than ever then."

"Well, Elsie," said Archie, laughing, "I am so old that I am going to
make my will."

Rupert put down his book with a quiet smile.

"What are you going to leave me, old man?  Scallowa?"

"No, Rupert, you're too long in the legs for Scallowa, you have no
idea what a bodkin of a boy you are growing.  Scallowa I will and
bequeath to my pretty sister here, and I'll buy her a side-saddle,
and two pennyworth of carrot seed.  Elsie will also have Bounder, and
you, Rupert, shall have Fuss."

"Anything else for me?"