It was not until the afternoon that news reached Burley Old Farm of
the fight in the woods and death of the keeper.  It was a sturdy old
postman who had brought the tidings.  He had fought his way through
the snow with the letters, and his account of the battle had
well-nigh caused old Kate to swoon away.  When Mary, the little
parlour-maid, carried the mail in to her master she did not hesitate
to relate what she had heard.

Squire Broadbent himself with Archie repaired to the kitchen, and
found the postman surrounded by the startled servants, who were
drinking in every word he said.

"One man killed, you say, Allan?"

"Ay, sir, killed dead enough.  And it's a providence they caught the
murderer.  Took him up, sir, just as he was a-goin' into his mother's
house, as cool as a frosted turnip, sir."

"Well, Allan, that is satisfactory.  And what is his name?"

"Bob Cooper, sir, known all over the----"

"Bob Cooper!" cried Archie aghast.  "Why, father, he was in our room
in the turret at the time."

"So he was," said the Squire.  "Taken on suspicion I suppose.  But
this must be seen to at once.  Bad as we know Bob to have been, there
is evidence enough that he has reformed of late.  At all events, he
shall not remain an hour in gaol on such a charge longer than we can
help."

Night came on very soon that evening.  The clouds banked up again,
the snow began to fall, and the wind moaned round the old house and
castle in a way that made one feel cold to the marrow even to listen
to.

Morning broke slowly at last, and Archie was early astir.  Tell, with
the Shetland pony and a huge great hunter, were brought to the door,
and shortly after breakfast the party started for B----.

Branson bestrode the big hunter--he took the lead--and after him came
the Squire on Tell, and Archie on Scallowa.  This daft little horse
was in fine form this morning, having been in stall for several days.
He kept up well with the hunters, though there were times that both
he and his rider were all but buried in the gigantic wreaths that lay
across the road.  Luckily the wind was not high, else no living thing
could long have faced that storm.

* * * * * *

The cottage in which widow Cooper had lived ever since the death of
her husband was a very primitive and a very poor one.  It consisted
only of two rooms, what are called in Scotland "a butt and a ben."
Bob had been only a little barefooted boy when his father died, and
probably hardly missed him.  He had been sent regularly to school
before then, but not since, for his mother had been unable to give
him further education.  All their support was the morsel of garden, a
pig or two, and the fowls, coupled with whatever the widow could make
by knitting ribbed stockings for the farmer folks around.  Bob grew
up wild, just as the birds and beasts of the hills and woods do.
While, however, he was still a little mite of a chap, the keepers
even seldom molested him.  It was only natural, they thought, for a
boy to act the part of a squirrel or polecat, and to be acquainted
with every bird's nest and rabbit's burrow within a radius of miles.
When he grew a little older and a trifle bigger they began to warn
him off, and when one day he was met marching away with a cap full of
pheasant's eggs, he received as severe a drubbing as ever a lad got
at the hands of a gamekeeper.

Bob had grown worse instead of better after this.  The keepers became
his sworn enemies, and there was a spice of danger and adventure in
vexing and outwitting them.

Unfortunately, in spite of all his mother said to the contrary, Bob
was firmly impressed with the notion that game of every kind, whether
fur or feather, belonged as much to him as to the gentry who tried to
preserve them.  The fresh air was free; nobody dared to claim the
sunshine.  Then why the wild birds, and the hares and rabbits?

Evil company corrupts good manners.  That is what his copy-book used
to tell him.  But Bob soon learned to laugh at that, and it is no
wonder that as he reached manhood his doings and daring as a poacher
became noted far and near.

He was beyond the control of his mother.  She could only advise him,
read to him, pray for him; but I fear in vain.  Only be it known that
Bob Cooper really loved this mother of his, anomalous though it may
seem.

Well, the keepers had been very harsh with him, and the gentry were
harsh with him, and eke the law itself.  Law indeed!  Why Bob was all
but an outlaw, so intense was his hatred to, and so great his
defiance of the powers that be.