III.

_RUNAWAY STOCK--BIVOUAC IN THE BUSH--NIGHT SCENE._

Australian cattle have one characteristic in common with some breeds
of pigeons, notably with those we call "homers."  They have extremely
good memories as to localities, and a habit of "making back," as it
is termed, to the pastures from which they have been driven.  This
comes to be very awkward at times, especially if a whole herd decamps
or takes "a moonlight flitting."

It would be mere digression to pause to enquire what God-given
instinct it is, that enables half-wild cattle to find their way back
to their old homes in as straight a line as possible, even when they
have been driven to a new station by circuitous routes.  Many other
animals have this same homing power; dogs for example, and, to a
greater extent, cats.  Swallows and sea-birds, such as the Arctic
gull, and the albatross, possess it in a very high degree; but it is
still more wonderfully displayed in fur seals that, although
dispersed to regions thousands and thousands of miles away during
winter, invariably and unerringly find their road back to a tiny
group of wave and wind-swept islands, four in number, called the
Prybilov group, in the midst of the fog-shrouded sea of Behring.  The
whole question wants a deal of thinking out, and life is far too
short to do it in.

* * * * * *

One morning, shortly after the arrival of the first great herd of
stock, word was brought to head-quarters that the cattle had escaped
by stampede, and were doubtless on their way to the distant station
whence they had been bought.

It was no time to ask the question, Who was in fault?  Early action
was necessary, and was provided for without a moment's hesitation.

I rather think that Archie was glad to have an opportunity of doing a
bit of rough riding, and showing off his skill in horse management.
He owned what Bob termed a clipper.  Not a very handsome horse to
look at, perhaps, but fleet enough and strong enough for anything.
As sure-footed as a mule was this steed, and as regards wisdom, a
perfect equine Solomon.

At a suggestion of Bob's he had been named Tell, in memory of the
Tell of other days.  Tell had been ridden by Archie for many weeks,
so that master and horse knew each other well.  Indeed Archie had
received a lesson or two from the animal that he was not likely to
forget; for one day he had so far forgotten himself as to dig the
rowel into Tell's sides, when there was really no occasion to do
anything of the sort.  This was more than the horse could stand, and,
though he was not an out-and-out buck-jumper, nevertheless, a moment
after the stirrup performance, Archie found himself making a voyage
of discovery, towards the moon apparently.  He descended as quickly
almost as he had gone up, and took the ground on his shoulder and
cheek, which latter was well skinned.  Tell had stood quietly by
looking at him, and as Archie patted him kindly, he forgave him on
the spot, and permitted a remount.

Archie and Bob hardly permitted themselves to swallow breakfast, so
anxious were they to join the stockmen and be off.

As there was no saying when they might return, they did not go
unprovided for a night or two out.  In front of their saddles were
strapped their opossum rugs, and they carried also a tin billy each,
and provisions, in the shape of tea, damper, and cooked corned beef;
nothing else, save a change of socks and their arms.

Bob bade his wife a hurried adieu, Archie waved his hand, and next
minute they were over the paddocks and through the clearings and the
woods, in which the trees had been ring-barked, to permit the grass
to grow.  And such tall grass Archie had never before seen as that
which grew in some parts of the open.

"Is it going to be a long job, think you, Bob?"

"I hardly know, Archie.  But Craig is here."

"Oh, yes, Gentleman Craig, as Mr. Winslow insists on calling him!
You have seen him."

"Yes; I met him at Brisbane.  And a handsome chap he is.  Looks like
a prince."

"Isn't it strange he doesn't rise from the ranks, as one might say;
that he doesn't get on?"

"I'll tell you what keeps him back," said Bob, reining his horse up
to a dead stop, that Archie might hear him all the easier.

"I'll tell you what keeps him back now, before you see him.  I
mustn't talk loud, for the very birds might go and tell the fellow,
and he doesn't like to be 'minded about it.  He drinks!"