The sheep, after being well scrubbed, were allowed a day to get dry
and soft and nice.  Then came the clipping.  Gentleman Craig was
stationed at a platform to count the fleeces and see them ready for
pressing, and Archie's work was cut out in seeing that the fellows at
the clipping did their duty properly.

It was a busy, steaming time, on the whole, for everybody, but merry
enough nevertheless.  There was "lashins" of eating and drinking.
Findlayson himself took charge of the grog, which was mostly rum,
only he had a small store of mountain dew for his own special
consumption.

Harry was quite the Whitechapel tradesman all over, though you could
not have told whether the grocer or butcher most predominated in his
appearance.

The clipping went on with marvellous speed, a rivalry existing
between the hands apparently; but as they were paid by the number of
fleeces, there was evident desire on the part of several to sacrifice
perfection to rapidity.

When it was all over there was still a deal to be done in clearing up
and getting the whole station resettled, one part of the resettling,
and the chief too, being the re-establishing of the sheep on their
pasturage after marking them.

The wool was pressed into bales, and loaded on huge bullock-waggons,
which are in appearance something between an ordinary country
wood-cart and a brewer's dray.  The road to the distant station was
indeed a rough one, and at the slow rate travelled by the bullock
teams the journey would occupy days.

Craig himself was going with the last lot of these, and Archie had
started early and ridden on all alone to see to business in Brisbane.

He had only been twice at the town in the course of three years, so
it is no wonder that now he was impressed with the notion that the
well-dressed city folks must stare at him, to see if he had any
hay-seed in his hair.

Winslow was coming round by boat, and Etheldene as well; she had been
at home for some time on a holiday.

Why was it, I wonder, that Archie paid a visit to several outfitters'
shops in Brisbane, and made so many purchases?  He really was well
enough dressed when he entered the town; at all events, he had looked
a smart young farmer all over.  But when he left his bedroom on the
morning of Winslow's arrival, he had considerably more of the English
Squire than the Australian Squatter about his _tout ensemble_.  But
he really looked a handsome, happy, careless young fellow, and that
bit of a sprouting moustache showed off his good looks to perfection.
He could not help feeling it sometimes as he sat reading a paper in
the hotel hall, and waiting for his friends, and was fool enough to
wonder if Etheldene would think him improved in appearance.

But Archie was neither "masher" nor dandy at heart.  He was simply a
young man, and I would not value any young man who did not take pains
with his personal appearance, even at the risk of being thought proud.

Archie had not long to wait for Winslow.  He burst in like a fresh
sea-breeze--hale, hearty, and bonnie.  He was also a trifle better
dressed than usual.  But who was that young lady close by his left
hand?  That couldn't be--yes, it was Etheldene, and next moment
Archie was grasping a hand of each.

Etheldene's beauty had matured; she had been but a girl, a child,
when Archie had met her before.  Now she was a bewitching young lady,
modest and lovely, but, on the whole, so self-possessed that if our
hero had harboured any desire to appear before her at his very best,
and keep up the good impression by every means in his power, he had
the good sense to give it up and remain his own natural honest self.

But he could not help saying to himself, "What a wife she will make
for Rupert!  And how Elsie will love and adore her!  And I--yes, I
will be content to remain the big bachelor brother."

There was such a deal to ask of each other, such a deal to do and to
say, that days flew by before they knew where they were, as Winslow
expressed it.

On the fifth day Gentleman Craig arrived to give an account of his
stewardship.

Etheldene almost bounded towards him.

But she looked a little shy at his stare of astonishment as he took
her gloved hand.

"Baby," he exclaimed, "I would hardly have known you!  How you have
improved!"