VII.

_A NEW ARRIVAL._

Winslow made months of a stay in the Bush, and his services were of
great value to the young squatters.  The improvements he suggested
were many and various, and he was careful to see them carried out.

Dams were made, and huge reservoirs were dug; for, as Winslow said,
their trials were all before them, and a droughty season might mean
financial ruin to them.

"Nevertheless," he added one day, addressing Bob, "I feel sure of
you; and to prove this I don't mind knocking down a cheque or two to
the tune of a thou or three or five if you want them.

"I'll take bank interest," he added, "not a penny more."

Bob thanked him, and consulted the others that evening.  True,
Archie's aristocratic pride popped up every now and then, but it was
kept well under by the others.

"Besides, don't you see, Johnnie," said Harry, "this isn't a gift.
Winslow is a business man, and he knows well what he is about."

"And," added Bob, "the fencing isn't finished yet.  We have all those
workmen's mouths to fill, and the sooner the work is done the better."

"Then the sheep are to come in a year or so, and it all runs away
with money, Johnnie.  Our fortunes are to be made.  There is money on
the ground to be gathered up, and all that Winslow proposes is
holding the candle to us till we fill our pockets."

"It is very kind of him," said Archie, "but----"

"Well," said Bob, "I know where your 'buts' will end if you are not
careful.  You will give offence to Mr. Winslow, and he'll just turn
on his heel and never see us again."

"Do you think so?"

"Think so?  Yes, Archie, I'm sure of it.  A better-hearted man
doesn't live, rough and all as he is; and he has set his mind to
doing the right thing for us all for your sake, lad, and so I say,
think twice before you throw cold water over that big, warm heart of
his."

"Well," said Archie, "when you put it in that light, I can see
matters clearly.  I wouldn't offend my good old Uncle Ramsay's friend
for all the world.  I'm sorry I ever appeared bluff with him.  So you
can let him do as he pleases."

And so Winslow did to a great extent.

Nor do I blame Bob and Harry for accepting his friendly assistance.
Better far to be beholden to a private individual, who is both
earnest and sincere, than to a money-lending company, who will charge
double interest, and make you feel that your soul is not your own.

Better still, I grant you, to wait and work and plod; but this life
is almost too short for much waiting, and after all, one half of the
world hangs on to the skirts of the other half, and that other half
is all the more evenly balanced in consequence.

I would not, however, have my young readers misunderstand me.  What I
maintain is this, that although a poor man cannot leave this country
in the expectation that anybody or any company will be found to
advance the needful to set him up in the business of a squatter,
still, when he has worked hard for a time, beginning at the lowermost
ring of the ladder, and saved enough to get a selection, and a few
cattle and sheep, then, if he needs assistance to heave a-head a bit,
he will--if everything is right and square--have no difficulty in
finding it.

So things went cheerily on at Burley New Farm.  And at last Winslow
and Etheldene took their departure, promising to come again.

"So far, lads," said Winslow, as he mounted his horse, "there hasn't
been a hitch nowheres.  But mind keep two hands at the wheel."

Mr. Winslow's grammar was not of the best, and his sentences
generally had a smack of the briny about them, which, however, did
not detract from their graphicness.

"Tip us your flippers, boys," he added, "and let us be off.  But I'm
just as happy as if I were a father to the lot of you."

Gentleman Craig shook hands with Mr. Winslow.  He had already helped
Etheldene into her saddle.