I started at a run. There was a very decent communication trench leading
to battalion headquarters, situated some few hundred yards back. There
was only one place, a kind of open slope, which offered no cover. I
crossed it without quickening my pace, for at that moment the German
lines were silent under our bombardment, and I ran no risk.

The Commandant was standing at the door of his dug-out.

"Oh, there you are. I'm sorry to have made you run. But it is all owing
to the success of the 22nd."

"What can I do, sir?"

"Look here. You're an expert in German, while I have hardly touched the
beastly language since I left Saint-Cyr. We have here a prisoner of
rank. I've had a shot at questioning him, but can't get a word out of
him. Yet he could give us some mighty useful information. He's a major
in the Engineers, and it was he who was organizing the sap we've just
played Old Harry with. Coste got him, and he'll certainly get his
captaincy for it."

"A senior officer who can't speak French! That's an extraordinary
thing!" I said. "You know many of them pretend not to speak it."

"I do know, otherwise I shouldn't have sent for you. He won't be able to
pretend he doesn't understand the excellent German in which you'll
address him. There is the fellow."

I went into my Commanding Officer's dug-out, where I found the German
major, guarded by the two men of the 22nd who had brought him across
from the German lines. They were so proud of their achievement that they
couldn't help giving me the following piece of information:

"He shot poor Labourdette with his revolver. But with Lieutenant Coste's
help we got him at last."

He was a man about forty, with cold blue eyes and hard but intelligent
features. He hardly replied to the salute I gave him as I entered.

I put several questions to him, but without success.

"Monsieur," he said at length, in the very best French, "as I told you,
what is the good of these questions? I shall only tell you things that
don't matter, such as my name, which does not interest you. As for
military information, I am an officer. So are you. If you were in my
place, you'd say nothing, wouldn't you? Let me do the same."

He lapsed into his obstinate, scornful silence.

"We sha'n't get anything out of him," I said to my chief. "Hadn't he
anything on him, any papers, when he was taken?"

"Nothing at all," replied the Commandant helplessly.

"Didn't you find _anything_?" I said to the men.

"Nothing but this, sir," one of them replied, taking a crumpled piece of
paper from his pocket.

"Let me see it," I said.

The fragment he handed me was written in pencil and half illegible. It
was the draft of a letter. I had an electric shock the minute I began to
read.

The prisoner watched me with a sly look.

I stepped up to him, beside myself.

"I know your name, _now_, sir!" I said.

"That is very remarkable," he replied insolently, "for the paper you
have in your possession is not signed, and you are not a wizard."

"You wretch!" I burst out. "Your name is Ulrich von Boose, and you are
the murderer of the Grand Duke Rudolph of Lautenburg-Detmold."

His face turned deadly pale. His hands contracted convulsively. But he
had enough presence of mind to say to my chief in a quivering voice:

"I protest against this treatment, sir! Please be good enough to stop
your lieutenant from insulting an enemy prisoner. It's infamous!"

"Oh, don't you bother me!" shouted my chief. "But really, lieutenant,
what's all this about? What's in that paper?"

I had the greatest difficulty in controlling my feelings.

"Excuse me sir," I murmured. "I don't feel able to explain myself....
But would you be kind enough to send for Lieutenant Vignerte at once! He
knows all about this man, and can tell you everything."