Then began the idyll of Philip von Königsmark and Sophie-Dorothea. The
gloomy Herrenhausen Palace witnessed their ephemeral loves.
Sophie-Dorothea's first notion was that the gallant Count had come to
Hanover only to see for himself the misery and desertion of her who had
been compelled by her father's wishes to marry another. His practically
open liaison with Countess von Platen added fresh torture to her lot.
But one morning, going with her lady-in-waiting to the little wood in
the Herrenhausen park where she sat out every day, she spied the Count
just moving off. A note was left on the seat, with these lines, in the
style of Benserade:


In other days a fickle swain was I;
Upon the green from lass to lass
At any hour I'd lightly pass;
Only a change, this pleased my eye
But since I've seen my fairest Sylvia's face,
From her my love no more can range,
I'll make one last supreme exchange.
From her I'll never change my place.


Was Sophie-Dorothea Königsmark's mistress? I still doubt it, even after
reading their correspondence in the archives of La Gardie. But I must
freely confess that it must have been quite impossible to doubt it in so
corrupt a Court as Hanover, where it was common knowledge that Duke
George's wife received the handsome Swedish adventurer every evening in
her apartments.

The vindictive Countess von Platen was the last to know that she was the
laughing-stock of the whole palace, but that day the doom of both Count
and Duchess was sealed.

On the evening of Saturday, July 1st, 1694, Königsmark, returning to
his room, found on his table a note with a few words scribbled in
pencil:


Princess Sophie-Dorothea will expect Count Königsmark this evening,
after ten.


This note, a forgery imitating Sophie-Dorothea's handwriting, was the
work of Countess von Platen. Königsmark, unsuspecting and brave as a
lion, kept the appointment. He left the Princess at two in the morning.

Next morning Sophie-Dorothea saw from her balcony two men furtively
wandering in the park as if they had lost something. They were Count
Philip's servants searching for their master. He was never to be seen
again, by them or any one else.

There you have the tragedy, my friend. There remains the _dénouement_,
the divorce of Sophie-Dorothea. That unhappy young woman of twenty-eight
lived in a world of enemies. She wished to leave her husband, who was a
nightmare to her, but was prevented by the wishes of her father, who had
forced a marriage on her for political reasons. A love-sick girl could
not be allowed to upset the pretty scheme which had the throne of
England as its possible goal. The unhappy creature refused to lend
herself to it. She was dangerous for other reasons. The Swedish Count
had relations. And so she was duly divorced after a trial in which she
suffered every outrage and humiliation. Her children were taken out of
her care, and ultimately the wife of the King of England, once more
plain Duchess, died a prisoner in her Castle at Ahlden in 1726. Then
only did the parental fury relent. The vaults of the castle in which she
was born were opened to her corpse. There, in the obscurest corner of
the crypt of the keep of Celle, is a humble coffin, bearing no
inscription. It contains the mortal remains of Sophie-Dorothea, wife of
the Elector George-Lonis of Hanover, King of England under the name of
George I.

I have outlined, as briefly as I could, the story of Philip von
Königsmark and Sophie-Dorothea. I need hardly say that many points in
the tragedy have never yet been cleared up. The assassination of the
Count is undoubtedly the most obscure incident in the whole affair.
Witnesses agree that it was Countess von Platen who set the trap in
which he perished. Ten hired assassins pierced him with their swords and
the horrible Countess herself dealt him the final blow. But what was
done with the corpse? This is where the mystery begins.

Opinions are divided. Was the Count, as some say, buried in a grave in
the park? Or, according to another version which I have reasons to
believe the true one, was his corpse covered with quick-lime and thrown
under the stone floor of the room known as the "Knights' Hall"? Or was
it simply cast into the latrines which communicated with the Lüne
flowing at the foot of the castle, as the author of the "Secret
History"[2] would have us believe? Was his the corpse, as Horace Walpole
asserts, which was discovered twenty years later under the floor of a
retiring-room in the Herrenhausen? I only put these problems to explain
to you, though to me it still remains inexplicable, my feverish
resolution to solve them. You may well imagine that the mystery was more
vivid and intriguing to me than to any other man, partly because of the
situation at the palace, with its many points of resemblance to that in
which the tragedy took place, and partly because of the priceless
material at my disposal in the ducal library.