Count Mathieu de Marçais had much the same appearance and presence as
those with which tradition endows Melarclus, notably the reserved,
knowing air of the diplomatist. With such a mask a man can afford the
luxury of an empty head. No one can ever find anything to challenge
there.

A pleasant-looking woman in her forties, surrounded by elaborate
implements, was engaged in manicuring the nails of the Minister
Plenipotentiary when I was shown up.

"I cannot apologize enough, sir," he said in his very best style, "for
the unceremonious manner in which I have to receive you. But time, dear
sir, you know what a precious gift time is in Paris. You can imagine how
I, who only spend a fortnight a year in this delightful city, have to
economize it."

He poured out half a dozen commonplaces of the same species, looking at
himself in the mirror, and stealing sidelong glances at me. I guessed
intuitively that this preliminary survey, so important for a man of his
stamp, was not altogether unfavourable. But I also gathered that I
should not exactly shake his poor opinion of the way in which University
men dressed.

When one of his hands had been finished, and was dangling in a bowl of
warm rosewater, he decided to get to the point.

"Of course, dear sir, nothing was further from my thoughts than to ask
you here to put you through a kind of entrance examination, a task for
which I am totally unfitted. I know that you possess all the educational
qualifications required. As to the moral and intellectual
qualifications, your friend Ribeyre's recommendation guaranteed them
even before I was in a position to judge from my own observations."

I bowed. He bowed. He seemed overwhelmed with his own eloquence.

"You will, no doubt, wish to know the nature of your duties at
Lautenburg. They will not be exacting! Duke Joachim already has a
science tutor. Major von Kessel is responsible for his military
education. Your functions will be to teach him French and History.
General History, of course. Oh, yes! There is one thing on which the
Grand Duke particularly insisted...."

"Now we're coming to it," I thought, remembering M. Thierry's
suspicions.

"Do you read poetry well?"

I was somewhat taken aback, though the question was disarmingly simple.

"I really can't say. It's a little difficult...."

"It's essential. The Grand Duke told me to insist upon it. The reason is
that the Grand Duchess is passionately fond of French poetry. Probably
you will be lent to her occasionally. It is a surprise that his Highness
has in store for his wife, who is always complaining that Lautenburg is
very lacking in this respect. 'My dear Count,' he said to me, 'I know
you are a man of culture and good taste, I leave it to you.' So you will
forgive me, dear sir, if I ask for proof in this matter. See," he added,
indicating a bookcase with his wet hand. "There are some excellent poets
there. Pick and read what you like."

To tell the truth, the collection in the bookcase was very much out of
date. I was obliged to select a volume of Casimir Delavigne, and I did
my best with his splendid poem _Les Limbes_:


Ils volent, mais on n'entend pas
Battre leurs ailes.


"Excellent! Excellent!" quoth Count Marçais, the connoisseur. "Isn't
it, Madame Mazerat?"

The manicurist made a sharp, clucking noise to demonstrate the pleasure
my performance had given her. I've seen many absurd scenes in my
life--but none more absurd than that.

"All is well, then," said the Count. "I have no need to tell you that
you will be treated with the deference due to your position. The Grand
Duke is a man of the greatest charm. The Grand Duchess"--he raised his
eyebrows--"is a Russian, and _that_ means everything as regards beauty.
Prince Joachim is very tractable, but perhaps a trifle slow-witted.
After all, we don't look for French vivacity in Germans. Lastly, the
Court is full of charming men and lovely women. Do you ride?"

I indicated that I did not.

"You must learn. You will ride with Kessel, a marvellous horseman. Of
course you must come to lunch at the Legation. I have a weird little
sketch by Poiret, of which you must give me news. You will see it when I
get back in ten days' time. You leave before me as you are expected as
soon as possible. If you catch the 10 P.M. the day after tomorrow, you
will be in Lautenburg about nine on Sunday morning."