"You can have no idea what a gorgeous affair a fête at the Peterhof is.
The Kaiser had donned another uniform, even more striking than the
first. But you should have seen his face when he saw Papa's!

"His uniform was not to be compared to that of the Tumene Prince. The
Empress's diamonds looked like the tawdry gewgaws of a suburban housewife
by the side of the brilliants on the chain which secured his scarlet
cloak at the left shoulder.

"When I went in I saw the Czar repress his astonishment. For one moment
I thought I must be too _décolleté_. Then this fear vanished as I
realized the impression I was making. You must remember I had secured
Doucet's admitted _chef d'œuvre_, a gown of sapphire velvet, made very
simply, but closely moulded to the form, and my jewellery consisted of
nothing but sapphires. Child as I was, I was already anticipating my
next day's success. 'But what will they say,' I said to myself, 'when
they see my Number 2, the red gown with nothing but rubies!'

"We danced. I was amused to see the Germans, accustomed to their slow
waltz, miss the beat of our rapid Russian waltz and put in a couple of
hops--or stand like herons--to catch up again.

"I danced with the Crown Prince. He complimented me on my dress and said
that the German Emperor was not an absolute monarch, as he'd never been
able to make his Court ladies do with less than six colours in their
gowns. I wanted to irritate him, so I replied that it was not
surprising, and that mine came from Paris. But he said I was right and
there was no place like Paris. With those priceless grimaces which are
quite his own he told me a whole heap of _risqué_ stories about Paris,
and as he took me back to my place I heard the old hen murmur in his
ear: 'Now, Fritz, behave!'

"At the same moment she beckoned to me to go and sit beside her.

"That morning I had noticed among the officers of the Kaiser's entourage
a tall Hussar in a scarlet uniform with yellow facings. He had sandy
hair and fine eyes, his blue, insistent eyes of a short-sighted man. He
had had his eyeglass fixed on me the whole time, but of course I was
careful to pretend I noticed nothing. I should have been astounded then
if any one had told me that one day I should be wearing that scarlet
uniform myself.

"'Aurora,' the Empress said, 'this is my cousin Rudolph, Grand Duke of
Lautenburg-Detmold. He wants a dance with you.'

"The red Hussar danced atrociously, though he made the most superhuman
efforts. He thought he ought to apologize, but I gave him no reply and
not even a word of thanks when the dance ended. He resumed his place
behind the Empress and wiped his eyeglass from time to time, looking
miserable enough to melt a stone.

"The next day I was delighted to hear that there was to be some
fox-hunting two days later. How thankful I was to have brought
Taras-Bulba, my wicked little Barbary horse, with me! I went to see him
at the barracks where our Cossacks were. He had behaved so outrageously
that he had been shut up by himself in a stable--the door of which he'd
nearly smashed to pieces on his way in.

"When he saw me he whinnied rapturously and soon bolted the sugar I had
brought him.

"'You've just got to show what you can do,' I said, running my hand
through his long, thick mane. 'We'll leave them all behind, won't we?'

"He nodded amiably to show he'd understood, and I went out to try on my
riding-habit.

"When I reached my room I found Papa there, looking calm but radiant. I
always loathe surprises. They are sure to be unpleasant.

"I saw that Papa didn't know how to begin, and that in itself made me
suspicious.

"'You must hurry,' I said. 'I have to dress.'

"'My daughter,' he said, 'I have something important to say to you.'

"'That is no reason why you shouldn't hurry up.'

"'My daughter, how would you like to be a Queen?'

"'Queen of what?'

"'Würtemberg.'

"We may have been brought up among savages, but I know my _Gotha_. So I
asked Papa if he wanted me to marry the King of Würtemberg, who was
then sixty-two.

"'It is not His Majesty the King of Würtemberg who has done me the
honour to ask your hand. It is His Highness the Grand Duke of
Lautenburg-Detmold.'