The Grand Duchess seemed to doubt the meaning of that look.

"Monsieur," she said, "Fräulein von Graffenfried is my friend, and you
must know that I have no secrets from those I have once called by that
name. You can speak freely before her. Indeed, I ask you to."

There was only one way out of the impasse. Stammering in the approved
manner of those with nothing definite to say, I told her as well as I
could about my conversation with Professor Thierry in the course of
which I had first heard the name of Baron von Boose.

Aurora of Lautenburg's forehead showed a wrinkle.

"I understand," she murmured at length, "or, rather, I think I
understand, in spite of the intentional reservations in your story."

She reflected a moment, then recovered her wonted calm and said:

"This proves, monsieur, how much one should distrust hasty conclusions.
I do not know where your Professor Thierry went for the story with which
he has stuffed your head. If, as you say, he is a conscientious
historian, I think he would have acted less precipitately if he had been
in possession of this--and this."

She handed me the letter I had just seen and with it another.

"These," she explained, "are two of the last letters written to me from
the Congo by the Grand Duke Rudolph. In the first he tells me how he was
saved by Ulrich von Boose from a buffalo which had killed his horse; in
the second, how this same Boose rescued him from five or six natives who
would have given him a bad time."

She looked at me with a smile while I read the passages she indicated.

I bowed, feeling somewhat sheepish.

Melusine had just filled the cups and we drank some very strong tea, in
which pieces of citron-peel floated. Then I kissed the Grand Duchess's
hand and clasped Melusine's.

"Au revoir till tomorrow, _ami_," said Aurora.

I went back through the park to my room, not without noticing, as I went
out, a shadow which had more than a suggestion of Lieutenant von Hagen
about it.


A shot, then another, rang out through the dear, empty night. We
listened. Nothing followed.

Vignerte shrugged his shoulders.

"Some sentry with the creeps."

"Lend me your torch," he said.

He turned on the light and held out two pieces of paper.

"What are they?" I asked.

"The first," he replied, "is a letter addressed to Aurora of Lautenburg
by the Grand Duke Rudolph. This other is the document drawn up by Boose,
which, as I have told you, secured my restoration to the Grand Duchess's
favour. It is as well," he added, "that you should not think you are
dreaming as you listen to my story. Try a little contact with reality."

I scanned the two documents eagerly, one covered with Boose's strong,
vigorous writing, the other adorned with those long feminine characters
which indicate a temperament more prone to reflection than action. I was
deeply moved by this letter of the German Grand Duke, who now rested
beyond the seas in the hot clay of the Congo, between the glowing
boundaries of the tropics. Mere contact with it conjured up a
startlingly clear vision of her to whom it was written. Aurora of
Lautenburg stood before us. I felt as if I had known her for ages.

Vignerte turned off the light and the rectangle of night sky reappeared.
I handed back the papers. He continued.


Brunetière, speaking of the _Lettres de Dupuis et de Colonet_, says
that they show less actual wit than a striving after wit. And that is
more or less true of all Musset's work. Reverse that saying, and you
have the best possible description of the Grand Duchess's conversation.
That proud woman was always aptness itself. She was an exceptional
being, and consequently what she said had always a quality of its own.
Her judgments were severe, perhaps, but never pretentious or bookish.

She avoided the commonplace as the cat avoids water.

I had no idea how much she knew or what she liked, so the three books I
took her that evening were _Le Voyage du Condotière_, _Les
Eblouissements_, _Les Evocations_.