Vignerte stopped, thought a moment and then put
an unexpected question.

"Do you know the dramatic story of Count Philip Christopher of
Königsmark?"

For answer I repeated the following lines:


_The Count of Königsmark once loved a queen,
Became the queen's own lover, so folk say,
In her own room, censed with fresh-burnt verbene
When nights were young as when they died to-day._

_What idle thoughts she poured into thy mind
Who could declare, what idle tales she told
As beaded bluebells all the while she twined
With hearts' ease in her locks of russet gold._


"The author of those lines," said Vignerte, "had read Blaze de Bury's
book. It is the only useful work in French on the tragedy. Do you
remember it?"

"I'm afraid I've forgotten most of it," I confessed.

"I shall have to give you the story in some detail. It will not explain
my own adventure. It makes it even more extraordinary."


You will certainly remember what was the general situation in the State
of Hanover in 1680. Its sovereign was Ernest-Augustus, a profligate
versed in all the arts of statesmanship, who had been successively
Bishop of Osnabrück, and Duke and Elector of Hanover. His brother,
George-William, was Duke of Brunswick-Lüneburg. Ernest-Augustus had a
son, George: George-William a daughter, Sophie-Dorothea.

The ambitions of Ernest-Augustus had a double goal. His primary aim was
to recover his brother's estates for his family. There was only one
method--to marry George to Sophie-Dorothea. The marriage took place in
1682 when the Duchess of Brunswick-Lüneburg was only sixteen.

The other ambition of Ernest-Augustus soared higher. It was the crown of
England. Fortune favoured him. One after another the twelve children of
Queen Anne were gathered by death. Ernest-Augustus was not to see the
fulfilment of his work--he died in 1698--but his son George reaped its
fruits. On the death of Queen Anne in 1714 he mounted the throne of
Great Britain as George I. He mounted it alone. Eighteen years before he
had separated from his wife as the result of an infamous intrigue, and
when her husband assumed the crown of England the wretched
Sophie-Dorothea was dragging out her weary days in the Castle of Ahlden,
more prison than palace.

You must forgive me for this dry summary of facts. It is essential I
should be clear.

The story of Sophie-Dorothea's divorce is the story of the assassination
of Count Philip-Christopher von Königsmark.

A member of one of the highest and most ancient Swedish families, friend
of the Prince-Elector of Saxony, as dark and handsome as Sophie-Dorothea
was fair and lovely, Count Philip and the Duchess of Brunswick-Lüneburg
had known each other at Celle in their childhood when they were
affianced in the ingenuous manner of the times. Their ways had parted,
however, and Philip had led the adventurous life of a gallant Swedish
free-lance at the Courts of James II. and Louis XIV., at Dresden and
Venice.

Was Sophie-Dorothea's marriage a spur to his old love or a blow to his
vanity? Whatever the reason, the fact remains that one fine morning
Hanover witnessed the arrival of Count Philip von Königsmark.

The Court of the Elector was a den of debauch, a garbage-heap on which
Sophie-Dorothea, fair lily, was slowly fading. Betrayed by a husband
whom she had ever despised, compelled to tolerate, as gracefully as she
could, the virago Countess von Platen, the abject favourite of
Ernest-Augustus, she spent her weary life in solitude, preoccupied
solely with the education of her two children--a son who was destined
for the throne of England, and a daughter who was one day to be Queen of
Prussia.

Then Königsmark arrived at Hanover and the drama opened.

Count Philip had come to take his revenge by winning back the heart of
Sophie-Dorothea. But before he had even set eyes on her Countess von
Platen had her eye on _him_. He deemed it wise not to flout the
all-powerful favourite, but he was obliged to go to great lengths in
order to soothe the susceptibilities of that woman--a Messalina and Lady
Macbeth in one. He went, in fact, to the furthest limit. Once
compromised, she would be in his power--but it was he who found himself
in her clutches.