"All right," grumbled my chief. "What a business!"

He gave the order.

At the sound of Vignerte's name the German had turned even paler. There
was rage and hatred in the look he gave me. If the two soldiers had not
held him tight he would certainly have flung himself upon me and tried
to snatch away the paper I was about to re-read with rather more
composure.


Once more, for the last time, I tell you this: I have seen too much of
your methods with others not to know what your intentions are as regards
myself. I agreed to go to the war. But the war is dragging on. Every day
I run the risk of never returning at all. No doubt that is exactly what
you want: after the Grand Duke, after the Grand Duchess, my turn, I
suppose! And then there'll be nothing to trouble your sleep.... I am not
such a fool as that. If, within fifteen days, I am not withdrawn from
the front and appointed to a staff post, with the rank to which I think
my services have entitled me, I can promise you _this_--a _detailed_
description of the whole affair will be _published_ by friends of mine,
in a large number of neutral or enemy papers, addressed to all those
whose enlightenment you have most reason to fear. And I can assure you
that it will be all the more credible because the documents will contain
a specimen of a handwriting which you know well.


The last sentence was in a totally different handwriting from that of
the rest of the letter. The latter was fine and spidery, the other big
and bold. I had been able to examine them both earlier in the night. One
was the handwriting of the letters written from the Cameroons by the
Grand Duke Rudolph, the other that of the sketch-map I had found in the
"Mittheilungen."

Everything was clear now, horribly clear. "Vignerte's going to know at
last!" I thought, in a transport of joy.

Then suddenly an icy sweat broke out from my temples. What price was he
going to pay for that knowledge! Fool that I was, I had forgotten that
she, too....

"He mustn't! He mustn't!..." I muttered.

Too late.

"There's Vignerte," said my chief, gazing out from the door of his
dug-out.

It was all over. The fatal step had been taken.

Day dawned, suffusing the earth with pink and blue tints. A thrush sang
on a shattered tree.

I soon saw Vignerte in the ravine below. He was coming up slowly. I
could see his tall, elegant form and, little by little, distinguish his
dark, clean-cut features.

"O God!" I cried.

"Come, sir," said my chief, "have you gone mad?"

And now Vignerte was only a hundred yards away. I saw him stride out as
he got to that open slope which still separated him from the Commanding
Officer's dug-out.

Then, from the clear depths of infinite distance a horrible sound came
out of nothing, and swelled to a great shriek. In the pallid sky an
invisible mass was approaching with the noise of a train entering a
station. The shriek grew louder and louder and we realized that the
hellish journey was to end on us.

We saw the men skip into their holes like so many frogs.

Surprised in the very middle of the bare slope, Vignerte had stopped.
Should he go on, or go back? We felt his fatal hesitation.

The shriek was now a roar of thunder.

"Vignerte!" I screamed frantically. "Lie down! For God's sake, lie
down!"

I saw him for one second more. He had not moved. Drawn to his full
height, and facing the approaching storm with a gentle smile of
acquiescence and ecstasy, he was gazing in rapt attention towards the
dawn.

Then came the crash.

A shower of stones and steel fragments fell on the roof of the dug-out
into which my chief had hastily pulled me at the last moment. When the
dreadful rain had ceased, we looked out, our eyes starting from our
heads with horror.