Ten o'clock, and the appointment with M. Thierry which I had almost
forgotten. He was reading in a corner by the fire, and when I entered he
came forward with a beatific smile.

"I have arranged everything with M. Berthomieu. You are to go to him."

"My dear master," I replied, "I'm afraid I have given you all the
trouble for nothing."

And I told him all that had happened the previous evening. In spite of
my wish to appear unmoved, I could not manage to conceal my pleasure. I
was disappointed that he did not seem to share it at once. He looked at
me with astonishment, even with disapproval, I thought.

These university people are all the same, I reflected, no salvation
outside the University. I abandoned the pose I found so unnatural to
proclaim far and wide my pride in my new glories.

"And, after all," I wound up, "I ask myself how many examinations I
should have to pass, how many years I should have to wait to reach the
position which is open to me at the start, ten thousand marks a year."

"That's true," he murmured, musing. He looked into the fire for a
minute, then got up and went to the bookcase, from which he returned
with a large volume in one of those dull-coloured, gilded, but tasteless
bindings which characterize many English and German books.

"Are you certain that the proposal has been made to you on behalf of the
Grand Duke of Lautenburg-Detmold?" he asked.

"Yes," I replied, "on behalf of the Grand Duke Frederick-Augustus."

"That's the man. To be tutor to his only son, Duke Joachim."

It was thus that I learnt the name of my future pupil.

My old tutor thought a few seconds more, and then, raising his glasses
towards me:

"May I ask if you are already bound by any formal contract?"

"Not yet, strictly speaking, but my mind is made up, and I shall go
unless some one else is preferred to me."

"In that case let us say no more," said M. Thierry, putting the book
back.

I was intrigued and a little annoyed.

"My dear master," I said, "will you be really frank with me? I know you
are too interested in my welfare to suggest my refusing such an
attractive offer unless you had very serious reasons for doing so.
Besides, I may confess that in coming to you this morning I hoped to
obtain some valuable information about the Court of Lautenburg-Detmold
for your unique knowledge of the men and affairs of modern Germany. I am
sure you are even more familiar with these details than I suspected. I
am to interview Count de Marçais, our Minister at Lautenburg, very
shortly, but it will not be easy for me to question him. Besides, a
diplomatist must doubtless observe a certain reticence, which you have
not the same reason to consider with me. To put it shortly, may I ask
you a question which sums up all this? If you had a son, Monsieur
Thierry, would you let him do what I propose to do? Would you let him go
to Lautenburg?"

He looked straight at me, and replied firmly, "No."

I confess that my astonishment began to give place to a slight feeling
of apprehension. I knew perfectly well that it was not childish pique at
my not accepting the post he had found for me, that influenced a man of
his profound judgment.

"You must have very good reasons, sir," I said, my voice trembling a
little, "to give me so categorical an answer."

"I certainly have," he replied.

"Would you mind telling me what it was you looked up in that book?"

"My dear boy, don't start thinking that that year book of Reigning
Houses contains any details of a kind to justify the apprehension I feel
at your going to Lautenburg. I have verified a name, confirmed certain
recollections--that's all.

"It is true that I have certain private information about the House of
Lautenburg-Detmold of which Count de Marçais himself might know
nothing, even assuming that he were a more gifted diplomatist than he is
reported to be. Besides, he has not been very long at Lautenburg, and
never knew the late Grand Duke Rudolph."

"Who was the Grand Duke Rudolph?"