II

_Intrigue in Space_


It was Tommy Strike who, several hours out from Mars, stumbled upon
the extraordinary and amusing scene which suggested that the journey
was indeed fated to be anything but routine. Glancing in through a
half-open door in the crew's quarters, he observed a man, a total
stranger, going through weird antics. The newcomer was holding his head
very gingerly between his hands, as if it were about to explode, and
walking around the small but comfortable room with awkwardly high steps.

The man glared at himself in the mirror, and Strike grinned at the
homely reflection the man saw. It was epitome of the battered,
broken-down boxer--flat nose, lumpy cheeks, scar tissue under the
brows, cauliflower ears.

The man with the clownish face now staggered to a porthole to look out.
Then he reeled back with a stricken, bewildered expression. He groaned
piteously, obviously in the grip of a hangover to end all hangovers.

Strike leaned quietly against the door jamb, to watch. Gradually, both
he and the broken-down pugilist became aware of voices in the next
room, voices hushed but intense. The ex-bruiser wobbled over to the
door and cocked his tin ear.

"Monk, you fool!" came the voice. "How the devil did that tramp get
aboard?"

There was a shuffle of feet.

"Boss, I swear I dunno," came the conciliatory reply. "We didn't expect
you right away, so we was havin' ourselves a time."

"A drunken carousal, you mean?"

"Okay, have it your way. Anyhow, when your message came, we headed
for the spaceport, but everything was pretty happy, see, an' this
fellow must have got sort of attached to the party, an'--" Monk's voice
trailed away. "As a matter of fact, I don't much remember exactly what
did happen."

"So when you checked in, seven souse-pots instead of six, no one
thought anything of it. Beautiful!" The invisible speaker was very
bitter. "Well, the tramp's aboard now, and the damage is done. I
suppose I should have met you myself. Question is--"

The lumpy-faced man suddenly shoved open the door. It was like a French
farce, with Strike able to see all that happened, while remaining
unobserved. Six tough-fisted mechanics, the men recruited by Dacres in
the emergency, were looking very ill at ease as Dacres tongue-lashed
them. Strike frowned slightly. He would have to remind the tall, blond
Dacres that it was the captain alone who had the right to discipline
the men.

Then the unidentified, clown-faced man spoke.

"You!" he snapped out. "Who're you?"

"Lawrence Dacres, and keep a civil tongue in your head."

"You shanghaied me aboard this here spaceship, Dacres, an' I demand you
turn around and take me back to Mars pronto. Or else!"

There was a round of mirth, and Strike moved nearer to watch the rest
of the scene. The strange, lumpy-faced man purpled.

"I mean it," he declared. "D'you know who I am?"

"Don't tell us. Let us guess." The heavy irony came from Monk, the man
who had been trying to explain how the extra person had come aboard at
the spaceport. He had a receding forehead and long, hairy arms.

"I'm Kid McCray, the Martian middleweight champion, that's who!"

The crewmen dissolved into the helpless hilarity of complete disbelief,
and Strike fought back his own urge to laugh. Middleweight McCray
ranted and stormed, trying to convince them of his sincerity. It was
useless. In fury, he doubled his fists and sprang at Dacres.

However, Strike decided, whatever ring experience McCray might have had
didn't include the trickiness of moving out in space. His lunge carried
him well off the floor. He sailed, floundering, like a man in deep
water, awkward and off balance. In this defenseless position, the blond
man's punch caught him flush on the jaw and slammed him head-first
against the steel wall.

McCray took a full count.