He snatched up the note, and opening it, read it _sotto voce_, with an
indescribable intonation of contempt:—

FRIEND—Ah, glorious soul, that I might call thee so indeed! I have
just read your poem in the Journal. Read it, did I say? My soul has
devoured it! Again and again have I returned to the feast unsated.
Ah me, that mighty rhythm! It has filled me with new strength and
light! On its harmonious flow the universe of beauty, love and life
has been brought closer to me—has been revealed in splendor and
unutterable music, until I have sobbed for joy thereof, and prayed and
wrestled for thee, with my Father above, that thou mightest be saved.
It is terrible to think that a soul so god-like as thine should be
unregenerate. I bless thee! I bless thee, my son! I pray for thee!
I am praying for thee! I shall pray for thee always, until thou art
saved!
MARIE.

“Good! I am in a fair way for salvation now, one would think! This
seems a strange character—such a mixture of fanaticism, cant, and,
withal, appreciation! That poem of mine was certainly an extraordinary
one. I hardly expected to find any one that would appreciate it at
first. But see! she has already caught its subtle reach and meaning.
Pooh! what a fool I am! This is perfectly on a par with all the other
hysterical cant which I have received from this person. The probability
is, if the lines had been written by Mr. Julian Augustus Maximilian
Dieaway, upon whose soft sconce she desired to make an impression (in
the way of speculation), the same extravagant tropes and metaphors
would have found their way to the snowy surface of this gilt-edged
paper, through the delicately-handled crow-quill! Curse it! I shall
order the chambermaid to stop the nuisance of these missives!”

This letter was impatiently tossed into the drawer with the others, and
Manton threw himself into his chair; when, after sitting with his head
leaning on his hands, moody and motionless, for some time, he suddenly
straightened himself, and drew from the heap of magazines and books
before him a fresh-looking copy of the —— Journal. Turning over its
leaves eagerly to that which contained his new poem, he perused it and
re-perused it over and over again, with an expression of restlessness
and intense inquiry in his manner during the time. At last he drew a
long breath, and threw the book back upon the table, exclaiming in
a firm voice, “No! I am satisfied. This is no namby-pamby die-away
rhyming—there is genuine stuff there; that is true poetry, or I have
it not in my nature to produce it. That cursed meddlesome woman has
made me distrust myself for the moment; by her extravagant praises,
has made me doubt the genuineness of my own inspiration. Her letter is
so evidently disjointed ranting, that it has shaken my self-reliance
to have even read it. Curse her silly and impertinent legends, I shall
read no more of them!”

Poor Manton was evidently troubled now, at length; and can the reader
conjecture why this last letter had so excited him? Had a subtle arrow
found its mark? Was there any thing in the poem really to justify the
high-flown and ecstatic panegyrics of missive No. 3, in the snow-white
envelope? You shall see—you shall judge. Here is a true copy of the
poem:—


NO REST.

O soul, dream not of rest on earth!
On! forth on! It is thy doom!
Too stern for pain, too high for mirth,
On! thou must, through light and gloom.

Would’st thou rest when thou hast strength
Mated with the seraphim?
Time outlasting, all whose length
Fades, within thine ages, dim?

O strong traveller, can’st thou tire,
When, but touching at the grave,
Thy worn feet, re-shod, aspire,
Winged, to cleave as Uriel[3] clave?

Rest! ah, rest then! be alone—
God the Worker, thou the Drone!

Soon yon atom, swiftly driving
Past thee, in the upward race,
Braver for the perfect striving,
Shall assume the higher place.

God, the Worker, knows no rest—
Pause, and be of Him unblest.

Lo! how by thee all is flying!
Even matter outspeeds thee!
Stronger thou, yet thou seem’st dying—
Fading down immensity.