Charley took comfort.  He felt proud of Arthur, and drawing himself
up stood beside the lady, as he thought, protectingly, for what
seemed an endless time, until a cheery shout came out of the clammy
mist, "I think we have got them all, sir."

Then, with a ghastly blue light burning in her bows a boat approached
the ship, and hurrying his companion to the rail Charley shouted with
delight as he saw his brother in the stern.  The second boat also
came surging towards them, and while wet objects were helped up the
steamer's side a man scrambled to the bridge, and again the Captain's
voice came down, "The other ship has her bows badly crushed, but she
can get back to Halifax.  Our vessel seems only damaged above water
level, and we're going on again soon."

[Illustration: "WITH A GHASTLY BLUE LIGHT BURNING IN HER BOWS A BOAT
APPROACHED THE SHIP."]

A hoarse cheer went up from the passengers, who were comforted by the
news, and Charley laughed excitedly, though his voice was thick as,
hurling hurried questions at him, he grasped Arthur's arm.  Still he
remembered hearing Miss Armadale say, "I am thankful to see you back
safe again.  It was very gallantly done, and I hope you will allow me
to congratulate you on more than your escape."

"I have often swum much farther for amusement; there were several
boats about, and the only thing that troubled me was the cold," said
Arthur gently; and the lady smiled at him curiously as, seeing her
own friends at last, she turned away.

The stowaways were helped up next, and the ship's doctor bent over
Jim, who lay limply in a seaman's arm with a red gash across his
forehead.

"Take this little fellow to the surgery; he's badly hurt," he said;
"see the rest get into warm blankets, steward, and they won't be much
the worse.  When I've time I'll physic you according to your deserts,
but it's a pity the worst dose I've got won't teach you sense.  When
you had a comfortable ship under you whatever must you jump into that
cold water for?  This Company's vessels are not built to sink."

For an hour the steamer's boats rowed through the fog, burning blue
lights; and then, as she went on again, Arthur explained that the
other vessel had only struck them slantwise in passing, though
several passengers were missing.  He also said that he found the two
urchins clinging to a piece of the boat, for Tom, who could swim, had
somehow got his comrade there.  He helped one lad on to the wreck,
and then held the other up against it until a boat came and took them
off--"just in time," he added simply.  Arthur, as his brother knew,
never said much about his own doings, and there was no need for him
to do so, because a meritorious action speaks for itself, while by
and by he went away to talk to Miss Armadale, who seemed very pleased
to see him.

Next morning Arthur went into the surgery and found Jim lying, with
his white face half-hidden by bandages, on a cot in it.  The purser
and doctor sat there, looking very grave, and the former said, "When
Tom fell from the rail what made you jump in?  You couldn't do any
good--you said you couldn't swim, you know."  Jim stared at the
speaker, as though puzzled, before answering, "We was partners in
everythin,' Tom an' me, an' when he lets go, of course, I let go too."

"I see," said the purser.  "There is more in that answer than I
daresay you guess.  I wonder if, among all my friends, anyone would
do as much for me.  You want to see your partner?  Well"--he glanced
at the surgeon, who nodded--"I'll bring him to you."

He had not far to go, for Tom was crouching against the bulkhead just
outside the door, as he had done most of the night, while when he
came in, the doctor whispered, "I am afraid he is very ill, and you
must not excite him.  Sit still, and don't talk much; he is not
always quite sensible."

The lad clenched one thin hand, his lips quivered, but he walked in
very quietly, and there was only a dimness in his eyes as he touched
the clammy fingers the other stretched out towards him, while a low
voice said, "We was true partners an' I wanted you.  I know I'm very
bad, though they won't say so, an' perhaps you'll go on to Canady
without me.  It's a very good land, Tom; plenty for everyone--them
plackgards said so.  No more cold, an' no more starvin'.  We was cold
an' hungry often yonder, but there's good times coming for you an'
me.  We're goin' to a better country."

"Hush!" said the doctor.  "He's getting light headed again"; and Tom,
who tried not to choke, said, "I'll be quiet as a mouse, sir, if
you'll only let me stay with him.  I know he'd like to feel me near
him."

Then the purser coughed a little, and Tom sat very still, holding his
comrade's hand, until the other sank into a restless doze, while,
when the doctor went out with Arthur, he said, "He hasn't any chance,
poor little fellow.  Got badly crushed somehow, and he's sinking
fast.  There is nothing I can do."