VI.

WHEN THE SNOWS CAME DOWN.

At last the work was finished, and Charley, who had been puzzled by
something strangely familiar in the face of a stripling who helped to
fit the beams, stopped opposite him under the bright glare of the
lucigen.  Then like a flash his thoughts turned back to the day when
their steamer crept slowly through the thick bank fog, and he
remembered the white-faced lad waiting outside his dying comrade's
room.  The picture was so vivid that he almost fancied he could hear
the throbbing of the steamer's crew.

"Tom," he said.  "I hardly knew you--have you forgotten me?"  And,
after staring hard at him, the other's eyes brightened as he
answered--

"Why, it's Mr. Gordon, whose brother jumped in after me.  I am more
than glad to see you."

Charley called out excitedly, and when Arthur came up the young man
smiled with pleasure as Charley explained who he was.  Afterwards,
answering the many questions they asked him, he said--

"Yes, I'm Tom, the stowaway.  The purser and Mr. Marvin--you will
remember him--left me safe in Quebec with friends of theirs.  They
bought me an outfit--some kind people on the steamer had sent the
money--sent me for a year to school, and afterwards set me learning
to be a carpenter.  Now I'm earning nearly two dollars a day, and
this country is good enough for a poor man like me.  Yes, you can
make quite certain of that--and I'm only sorry poor Jim never lived
to reach it.  It was he who read those placards, and I can't forget
him.  No, I still dream of that collision, and sometimes at nights I
can see him lying there so white and quiet in the steamer's hospital.
'There's plenty for us two yonder in that good country,' was the last
he said.  Then I hear the big engines humming.  Curious, isn't it?--I
can hear them now."

It was a strange meeting up there, after the stress and hurry, in the
mountain wilderness, and there was a few moments' silence, while
Charley wondered whether the half-starved urchin he met on board the
steamer would ever have grown into this sturdy, contented young
workman, if he had stayed at home.  He hardly though it likely.  Then
Arthur said--

"I believe he is right about the sound, but it is the snow coming,
not the steamer's screw."

A deep, trembling boom commenced and grew louder overhead, then with
a hurried tramp of feet the men flocked towards the entrance of the
shed, and the surveyor, overtaking Arthur, said--

"We'll have the snow-slide upon us presently, and I'm not quite
certain what is best to do.  Steam's down on the locomotive, we
couldn't raise it in time, and I'm not sure if we could get clear
before the wreckage swept the valley.  Of course, it will come right
down the hollow over the big glacier."

Charley, glancing upwards, saw a dark gap in the lofty line of
eternal snow, which glimmered coldly high up under the stars, while
the tall pines shivered as a great chorus of sound came vibrating
down through the darkness.  It drowned the hoarse fret of the river
in the gorge below, grew louder and deeper, until the boldest of the
workmen ceased their murmuring, and the forests in the valley were
wrapped in listening silence while the great peaks spoke.  It seemed
to Charley's excited fancy it was some majestic chant they raised,
for the hills on the further side flung back the sound, and it struck
him there was a meaning in the _Benedicite_ he had never understood
before.  Winter frost that split the hard rock, summer sun, grinding
ice, and melting snow, had each their work to do in enriching a good
land and wearing down the face of the hills.

Neither was it ruin they wrought, for the wreckage they brought down
would fertilize many a valley; and the rest, swept on by a mighty
river, help to spread new wheat-lands west into what was then the
sea.  So Charley, too, felt humbled and awe-stricken, while, in
obedience to everlasting laws which were older than the solid earth
that trembled as it heard, the great voices of Nature proclaimed
their message.  Sometimes they speak in thunders, sometimes very
softly, but they are never silent, and Charley, unheeding, had heard
them in the sigh of the grasses which grew and died for centuries to
add a few more inches of black soil to the prairie.

It was the surveyor who broke the silence--

"I guess, all things considered, we had better trust the shed," he
said.  "Timber-cutter Gordon, we'll test your work to-night, and if
you've done it badly there'll be pretty few of us left in the morning
to tell you so.  Are you willing to take the chances?"