“Why, she acts so strangely at times. She sits and looks back over her
shoulder in such a startled way, and early this morning, after you had
gone out, I heard some one cry out in her room and I ran in there to see
what was the matter. She was sitting up in bed and brushing the wall
about her with a broom. Her face was red, her eyes bright, and she kept
saying, ‘Get away with you, you little imps!’

“‘Why, Alice,’ I cried, ‘what ails you?’ She dropped her broom and
looked embarrassed when she saw me, and said imploringly, ‘I can’t help
it, Nellie! Don’t blame me, I can see such horrible crawling things on
the walls. There are all manner of creatures, some on two legs and some
on four or more, and they grin and chatter in such a fiendish way I have
to fight them.’ And she began to sob. I told her it was only her
imagination from disordered nerves, and she ought to have a doctor. But
she assured me she was well, physically. One can see, however, from her
thinness and pallor that such is not the case.”

Mark’s face grew dark and he shut his teeth hard.

“Nellie, it all comes from the evil machinations of one man who has been
coming here to the house; a spirit-medium, he calls himself, but I
imagine him an agent for Satan. He holds seances, and has given Alice
books to read until she is filled with his theories. She has been alone
too much since mother went home, and has become melancholy and nervous.
I am very glad you are with us. Try to keep her cheerful and her mind
off those things as much as possible. I need help.”

Mrs. Wylie sighed.

“Ah, I know what it is, Mark. Horace has been interested in this
subject, and I have seen more of it than I enjoy. Horace’s sister in
Oakland is a believer and gives up her house to seances and meetings of
that sort.”

“Indeed, I am surprised that so solid a man as Mr. Wylie should give ear
to such nonsense.”

“But, Mark, you can’t say it is all nonsense. There are very many bright
people who believe in it, though they are perhaps the exceptions; but
there is certainly something supernatural about it.”

“No, Nellie, I do not think it is supernatural. It is only because we do
not understand Nature’s laws and forces that we thus designate the
phenomena produced. I really believe the time will come when every
phenomenon adduced will be explained from natural hypothesis. Much of it
can be now. I am not sure but all of it can.”

“I have a friend, Mark, a very sweet young woman, who I am sure would
not stoop to deceit, who can do many wonderful things. She can write
messages from the spirit world, is clairvoyant, and can, if an article
is placed in her hand, describe the owner, his surroundings, etc. I have
recently heard that she has developed as a materializing medium.”

“But, my dear, she may be ever so honest and be self-deceived. Those
things do not prove the agency of any disembodied spirit. We all have
more or less of the psychometric power, no doubt, which, although we
cannot account for it, is no more wonderful than the electric current
and many other forces of Nature. There certainly seems to be a force
which connects individuals and forms a medium for thought transference.
The Hindoos understand this much better than we do, hence the mysteries
of their conjuring tricks. They must make use of this psychic force of
which we are but dimly conscious. Possibly we may, in the future, learn
to control it as we do now the lightning. But there is no spirit agency
in it.”

“The most mysterious to me is the slate-writing,” said Mrs. Wylie. “My
friend does that also. I have seen instances where there seemed to be
absolutely no opportunities for fraud.”

“We may have belief in the power of mind over matter. I have thought
much over this and am willing to admit that the spirit of man may even
act upon matter to produce this slate-writing, but I believe it is the
medium’s spirit rather than any other. If the disembodied spirit is
supposed to do this, why not the spirit or intelligence of the medium
also? All things considered, I prefer to believe the medium responsible.
Of course, in many cases it is probably only a trick or sleight of hand,
in substituting one slate for another; but I think I have seen cases
myself where such explanation could not be given.

“But this hypnotic force which can make a subject do, believe, assume
personalities and see whatever is suggested to him is a wonderful force
and I know not what its limits are. It may account for the supposed
slate-writing. The Oriental can produce phenomena beyond anything known
here, and yet, as I understand, he does not pretend that his power comes
from the spirits of departed friends. As for mind over matter, the
planchette is certainly governed by the intelligence of the operator or
manipulator.”

“If,” said Mrs. Wylie, “one mind may influence another, now annihilating
time and space, why may not the mind or spirit of the dead so act after
it is separated from the body?”