“Free transportation and exchange of farms,” said Donald.

“Yes; again, we have a fine crop of grain or corn nearly in ear, when
there will come a hot wind and sear the leaves like a fire. We are never
quite sure, or able to prognosticate here for the future, whether we
will have corn, beans, and potatoes to eat, beans and potatoes, or
whether it will be beans alone.”

“And you sometimes have real fires,” said Mrs. Clyne. “I have worried
about them ever since the one you wrote me about, which Lissa fought.
How did you do it, dear?”

“Really, I don’t know. I was so frightened that I didn’t have time to
think. The grass was not so high on this side of the river or I don’t
know what might have happened.”

“Lissa aided in turning the fire. I doubt if it would have spared us
otherwise,” said Nathan.

“I shall always believe it a real miracle that time,” said Lissa. “It
was only a day or two before that that Nathan had brought the calves
around to crop the grass before the house. Had it not been for that, it
surely would have burned. And who inspired him to bring them just when
he did?”

“I think you all learned something that time,” said Alice. “You have
since followed Mark’s example and kept the grass cut around the house.
But there’s always danger in the fall, when the weeds are high in the
outlying fields.”

“When Mr. Elmer’s house was burned it was nearly as terrifying. Nathan
was thirty-five miles from home, and men came across the fields and
lighted back fires for me. The wind was driving the flames up from the
south and burning corn-fields and houses by the way,” Lissa said.

“How dreadful! You sometimes have it very cold here also,” said Mrs.
Clyne.

“Yes, but we are used to that, and our houses are warm. Don’t worry
about that, mother.”

“Certainly not, I can stand it if you can, I am sure. But how are you
off socially? Have you pleasant neighbors?”

“Yes, indeed, and neighbors are neighbors, here. We call each other by
the first name,—that is, most of us do,—and we are not above borrowing
from one another when necessary.”

“I should think not,” laughed Alice. “We have often loaned our dresses
and shoes.”

“And that isn’t all.” And then the twain looked at each other and
laughed again.

“I don’t see how you ever became accustomed to it, girls. You were
brought up to such a different life,” Mrs. Clyne remarked.

“O, it’s easy, just as easy as learning to skate,” responded Lissa, not
finding at hand any more suitable comparison. “It comes to one naturally
in a little time.”

Mrs. Clyne shook her head. “I’m afraid it wouldn’t come to me. I’m too
old.”

“O, now mother, don’t think that. You’ll really enjoy it. And we have
some really nice people here. The McClearys, for instance; and the
Davitts and the Youngs and the Garretts. Then we _know_ every one for
miles away, and intimately.”

“Yes,” said Alice, “we know all the private affairs of each other. If
Mrs. Garrett gets a new dress all the neighbors know of it, and if I
have company to tea, or make plum butter, it is known from here to C——”

“Ah, it’s all beyond me,” Mrs. Clyne sighed.

“And when we visit one another we take our work along and stay to tea,”
giggled Lissa, “whether we are invited or not.”

“And just think, mother, I have been in a carriage but once or twice
since we came here. I always go horseback,” added Alice. “And
Donald,—I’m sure you’ll allow me to follow our custom out here and call
you so, as you are one of the family,—the young folks go ‘sparking’ out
here, and—”

“And sit in the corner and hold each other’s hands,” put in Nathan.

“Whew, that sounds interesting. I’m booked for at least one winter here.
Are the girls pretty?”

“Most assuredly, and there are heaps of them, as we say here. There are
more girls than boys, for some reason. Really I don’t know of more than
half a dozen marriageable young _men_ in this section.”