XIII
A DOMESTIC JAR


Mrs. Wylie went back to her home in a very dissatisfied frame of mind.
She mentally scourged herself for having been instrumental in bringing
Mrs. Lucien under Dr. Lyman’s influence. The whole subject was
distasteful to her and she resolved to keep away from Mrs. Lucien as
much as possible in the future. She could not rest, however, until she
had unburdened herself to her husband.

“Horace, I am very sorry we ever met Mrs. Lucien,” she said that evening
as they sat in the quiet of their parlor at the hotel.

“Regret meeting Mrs. Lucien?” Mr. Wylie raised his eyebrows quizzically.
“And why, may I ask? Am I to infer that you do me the honor to be—”

“No, no, of course not. But—I feel that we have done her harm—an
incalculable amount of harm.”

“We do her harm? Will you be so kind as to explain your anomalous words?
I am not accustomed to think of myself as a dangerous character, either
specially or as regards the body-politic,” he replied, frowning.

“I mean that, by our aid, she went to hear Dr. Lyman, and I am afraid
his pernicious theories will ruin her,” faltered Mrs. Wylie, as she
detected her husband’s disapproval.

“My dear, I would have you choose your adjectives more carefully.
Pernicious is an offensive word to use in connection with a subject of
which you know so little. Oblige me by deferring your judgment until you
are better acquainted with the subject. Your blind prejudice is making
you censorious.” Mr. Wylie employed his most lofty tone and manner.

“I never want to know more of the subject, and I shall always regret
that I ever went or took Mrs. Lucien to hear that man!” Mrs. Wylie’s
blue eyes filled with tears.

“Why, see here, Puss, you seem more out of humor than usual. What has
happened to Mrs. Lucien?”

“Matter enough! She is entirely carried away with that—that Dr. Lyman’s
creed,” she stammered.

“Perhaps you wouldn’t mind telling me where she has gone,” he suggested
with serio-comic gravity.

Mrs. Wylie smiled through her tears.

“O, she is here yet, at least in body, but her mind is up in the clouds
roving around after familiar spirits. She was in some kind of a trance
when I went there to-day, and wrote me a letter purporting to come from
some mystical source.”

“Ah?” Mr. Wylie became interested.

“It didn’t amount to anything. The whole thing was dreadful.”

“Why dreadful? Did you keep the letter?”

“Yes, here it is upon my shopping-tablet.” She detached the ivory
ornament and handed it to him. He studied it carefully, then said:

“And she was unconscious when she wrote this, you say?”

“Yes, apparently.”

“Strange, strange. It is as I thought. Mrs. Lucien will develop into a
writing medium. It is such ethereal natures as hers that are chosen.”

“But, Horace, I cannot endure the thought of such a thing.”

“And why not, pray?” Again his eyebrows were exasperatingly elevated.

“Because there is no good in it. Because it will ruin her, body and
soul. Whoever goes into that belief does so at his peril. He either
becomes insane or helplessly demoralized before many months or years.”

“Where have you learned so much, Mrs. Wylie? It appears to me I have
never seen you so much excited over anything before. Who has been
talking to you?”

“I heard Mr. Smalley’s address at church last Sunday evening, which you
would not go to hear. He said it was a most pernicious and dangerous
theory to follow. That it led to—”

“O, I know. It is the wholesale condemnation of heterodoxy by orthodoxy.
It is believe what I believe or be damned. All else is of the Devil. It
has been the habit of most people since the world began to denounce as
heresy, or ridicule as madness, things too high for their sight or too
deep for their comprehension. But the day has gone by for this sort of
thing. It is merely a confession of ignorance, now-a-days, to assert a
total disbelief in psychic and supernatural phenomena.”