“Thank God for this! and thank you, Tibby, also!” Mark ejaculated. “I
feared her mind would give away to the shock. But this sleep will
restore her. What a blessing is sleep. This world would be a mad-house
of maniacs without it.”

“Yes, Mr. Cramer; but may I not now know what this all means?”

Mark handed Tibby the document which had wrought the ruin. She read it
through with corrugated brow, and then sat thoughtfully with it in her
hand.

“Can you understand the cause for this, Tibby?”

She shook her head.

“No, unless—I do not know, but there was a woman on the boat with us
when we went to Santa Barbara, whom Mr. Wylie seemed to admire and who
appeared completely infatuated with him. So much so as to cause remark.
I did not tell Mrs. Wylie, but I overheard people talking of her. She
was in some way one of his kind, that is, she believed in spiritism and
he seemed to enjoy her society.

“Mrs. Wylie did not like her because she had been at the hotel in the
mountains when we were there, and the ladies had been somewhat
scandalized by her behavior. But of course it seems incredible that she
should have been able to cause trouble. I should not think of her, only
at the time I felt such an instinctive dislike for her, and fear, as if
she was dangerous.” Tibby spoke with evident reluctance. “I am afraid I
tried to punish her sometimes.”

“Punish her? How?”

“O, I made her upset her coffee, spill her soup, and do other awkward
things. I am glad now that I did them; that is, if she is to blame—for
this.”

“I see you feel convinced that she is,” Mark said. “And I am inclined to
trust your intuition.”

Tibby’s care of Mrs. Wylie was untiring, and when another day had come
and the grief-tortured woman could control herself sufficiently to talk
of her trouble, Mark sought from her to learn something more of the
cause of it; but any suggestion of the idea that Horace had been
beguiled by another woman met with indignant protest from Elinor.

“O, no, no; there is nothing of the kind! Horace has always been devoted
to me. I think he must be insane. I can account for this in no other
way. I am sure his belief in spiritism has in some way been the primary
cause of the trouble. It does unbalance the mind, we know,” she
faltered. “We never had any disagreement except over that.”

“Yes,” Mark said, “I am willing to believe that anything may come from
embracing that creed. But what does he write you, Elinor?”

“Here is the letter. Read it and interpret it if you can. I have read it
several times with no further enlightenment,” she replied sadly.


“‘My dear Elinor:

“‘I fear this letter may prove a surprise to you, and a shock. I hardly
know how to make you understand the reason why I have taken this step.
It seems to be a necessary one. But I have not taken it without due
reflection. I am convinced our marriage has not been the soul-marriage,
which is the only true one, and that our tastes and requirements are so
dissimilar, it is better that we should go separate ways. I am willing
to provide abundantly for all your needs and for Robbie. You will, of
course, desire to keep him with you at least until he is old enough to
be sent away to school. I have placed with my attorney a sum of money
which shall be paid to you regularly each month, sufficient, I am sure,
for all your requirements, and I shall be glad to supplement it if at
any time you desire more.

“‘Is there anything here at home which you would especially desire me to
send you? I imagine you will prefer to make Forest City your permanent
home, and I would suggest that you keep Tibby with you as long as
possible. Your harp and piano I have already had boxed awaiting your
order. And now, dear Nellie, I hope you will accept this trial in the
right spirit, believing it for the best, as I do. It has been a trial,
also, to me, I assure you, but it has seemed a duty, if not an actual
necessity.

“‘Very affectionately yours,
“‘HORACE WYLIE.’


“The man is certainly insane, or—”

“Infatuated with some other woman,” interrupted Alice as Mark hesitated.