“Have we ever met before, Miss Waring?”

“I think not,” Tibby said, with an emphasis that sounded much like “I
hope not,” but she did not relax her persistent watchfulness. Surely the
girl, though handsome, was very ill-mannered. She acted like a child who
had met an interesting specimen.

“Have you had any new experiences, Mrs. Cramer?” the man asked, again
changing his position nervously. He was evidently upon the defensive so
far as Tibby was concerned, and did not care to longer challenge her
attention.

“N—no,” said Alice. “I think I have been less annoyed by unpleasant
influences, lately,”—then, catching Tibby’s eye,—“since you went away,”
she added.

Professor Russell gave Alice a sharp glance, as if to determine whether
any disrespect was intended by her remark, while Tibby’s eyes danced
mirthfully.

“We trust,” said Mrs. Wylie, with a dignified raising of her chin, “that
as Mrs. Cramer is getting her nerves under better control, she will not
be haunted any more by imaginary spectres.”

“You think them, then, a mere delusion of the senses?”

“Most assuredly.”

“But if I should tell you that I, who am not in the least nervous, can
see forms about Mrs. Cramer, why should she not see them?”

“Because they are not there. Because you make her see them. Mr. Russell,
we feel, my brother and I, that you have done a serious wrong to Alice,
and I know if Mark were here he would not permit you to see her.”

“Eh? What? Not to see her? Mark must be beside himself. Why, I am sorry.
I regret very much that—that—that—Why, bless you! how sleepy this warm
weather makes me. I have really allowed myself to become wearied.
Perhaps I ate too hearty a dinner. Mrs. Cramer, may I trouble you for a
glass of water?” And Russell started up and passed his hands before his
eyes as if to brush cobwebs from them. “I have been walking about in the
heat all day and it’s almost overcome me, I reckon.”

Alice rose to go to the well at the back of the house, and it was
several moments before she returned.

“Here is the water, Professor,” she said, coming forward with a pitcher
and glass upon a small tray. “I have drawn some fresh for you.”

But her words seemed wasted upon the man before her, who was apparently
deaf and blind to all external influences. “Why, can it be he’s asleep?”
she continued, under her breath.

“Ah, I hardly think—he’d be so severe as that. I am—much—interested—much
in—the dark,” muttered Russell. “I’m—m—m—” His chin dropped, his eyes
closed, and he sank back heavily in his chair. Tibby arose and
approached him with cat-like tread, looking at him eagerly. She waved
her hand before his face. “Yes, you’re asleep fast enough!” she said
exultantly. The man began to breathe with the measured rhythm of deep
sleep.

“Mrs. Cramer, you are free from that man’s influence,” Tibby continued,
with a long sigh of conscious relief. “I was so afraid I could not get
him under control, as he might be on his guard. But you distracted his
attention, Mrs. Wylie, and then I got him. He was warm and tired from
walking, and a heavy dinner too, probably. Did I do the baby act well?
He probably thought I was the personification of rustic innocence and
did not fear me. Ah, you’re asleep now, old fellow, and cannot awaken
until I give you permission. I can see Donald Bartram coming,” she
continued, looking out of the door. She waited for him to come up,
standing upon the step of the cabin, a picture of animated life.

“For once, Mr. Bartram, you are on hand when you are wanted.” And she
courtesied to him mockingly.

“For once? Rather say, always,” he replied with assurance. “But what is
it now? Whew!” as he caught sight of the slumbering man.

“Can you ask? Don’t you see it is a sleeping beauty; and as he’s liable
to wait until the Millenium for the princess to come to awaken him, or a
thousand years, more or less, suppose we bury him.”

Donald looked from the face of the laughing girl to the sleeping man, in
amazement.

“I put him to sleep,” she vouchsafed.

“By all that’s good, if old Russell hasn’t met his match!” he whispered.

“O, you needn’t whisper, he won’t waken; and it isn’t a lucifer-match,
so don’t look surprised, but please suggest to me what to do with him.”