“I think our desire to reach home has been communicated to the horses.
They have needed no urging,” Nathan replied.

“I wish you would change places with me,” Lissa said. “I am tired of
riding in a wagon, and a horseback ride would rest me.”

Mark hesitated. “My horse has never been ridden by a woman, or in fact
only once or twice by anybody, and is but illy broken. I took him from a
herd of wild bronchos from the plains. They were brought here a few days
ago. I fear he isn’t altogether safe; besides, the saddle—”

“Lissa is an expert horsewoman,” said Nathan, interrupting him. “If he
is not really vicious, I think she can manage him. As to the saddle, she
is used to that kind. Turn the off stirrup to this side, and it will be
all right.”

All being soon arranged for her, Lissa stepped from the wagon to the
horse’s back, and experienced a delightful sensation of rest and
exhilaration at the idea of a canter in the dewy, evening air over this
wild, strange country. She started on ahead. Her horse sprang into a
lope, increased his speed to a run, and she was soon skimming over the
road at a pace unparalleled in her experience. She became alarmed and
sought to check him, but was unable to do so. The spirited, half-wild
thing had taken the bit in his teeth, and heeded not her utmost strength
upon the bridle rein. She heard the wagon coming behind her, and knew
they were running their horses at their highest speed to try to keep her
in sight, but the mustangs, jaded as they were, were no match for the
swift-winged Pegasus beneath her. On, and on, and on he sped, faster,
faster, and faster, until the gentle breeze became a strong wind, taking
her breath. How long would she be able to hold out, she wondered. At the
rate they were going it would not be long before they would reach home.
Home—what a meaning that word had for her. But suppose the pony took a
wrong road; this road was marked only by the borders of high grass on
both sides. There might be branches leading no one knew where.

She had passed beyond the sound of the wagon now. On, on, on the swift
creature flew, no pause, no break in his mad flight. They must have
covered five miles at least, she determined. Her breath was coming in
frightened gasps, and her hands were trembling. She felt that she could
not keep her seat much longer. Suddenly the horse stumbled slightly and
slackened his gait. Lissa nearly fell, but by a desperate effort
recovered herself. She was holding tightly to the saddle horn. Again the
horse stumbled—there must be holes in the ground. Slump, slump, slump.
What was the matter? The broncho was going much slower now, and Lissa
spoke soothingly to him, and drew up on the rein. He submitted to her,
and subsided into an easy canter. At last, as the soil seemed to
frequently give way under his feet, he came down to a walk and permitted
her to keep him slowly at that gait, until she heard the welcome sound
of the wagon behind her, when she halted and waited until they came up.

“What a fright you have given us!” cried Nathan, a quiver of relief in
his voice. “We feared you had been carried off bodily to the plains or
thrown down by the way-side. Why did you ride so fast?”

“For the reason that I was obliged to. Whirlwind—I have named him—paid
no more attention to my commands for him to moderate his speed than if I
had been a gad-fly. He fairly flew with me until he stumbled, back here.
He seemed to lose courage or confidence then, and went slower.”

“I wonder you did not fall,” said Mark. “I was afraid of prairie-dog
town. These little fellows undermine the ground until it is hardly safe
to ride over.”

“And we, then, have been over a prairie-dog settlement?” questioned
Lissa.

“Yes, there is a large one here extending a mile on either side of the
road. If you had come through here in daylight you would have seen them
coming out of their little houses, and heard them bark.”

“I think I did hear one. Have they a little piping voice?”

“Yes, very likely you did hear them. You will often pass here and have
plenty of chance to study them,” said Nathan.

“Do they do any harm?”

“No, except to undermine the ground and make it treacherous to
travelers.”

The remainder of their journey was uneventful, and before midnight the
two sisters were united, and talking so animatedly that the night bid
fair to be sleepless.

“Come, Alice,” Mark said at last, “Lissa must be very tired and you are
to have weeks and months together now to tell everything to one another.
You don’t want to make her ill at the beginning.”

“No, I do not. But it does seem glorious to have some one to talk to.”