XV
WELCOME GUESTS


We will pass over the first few years of Lissa’s pioneer life, only
mentioning one or two experiences which, though common to that section
of the country, brought terror and anxiety to the heart of our little
bright-eyed woman. Again they experienced the sweeping of a prairie fire
near them, when Nathan came expecting to find their home in ashes, and
another hour when a blizzard drove them terrorstricken to their dug-out,
where, during the long night, they listened to the shrieking and
pounding of the elements, expecting every moment to have the roof torn
from the house.

There had been seasons of famine and distress, too, when neighbors had
been obliged to turn to each other for aid, and the higher and diviner
attributes of mankind had shone forth as gold from the crucible, and
others, alas! had been proven so encased in the rock of selfishness that
when Famine’s gaunt wolf howled about they thought only of themselves
and their own safety, and consoled their consciences by quoting,
“Charity begins at home.”

But these trials had drawn the little community more closely together,
and the habit of calling each other by the first name became general,
showing the unity of feeling among them.

Nathan, owing to his winter employment, escaped the privations common to
many, and Mark, also, had not to depend upon the mutability of the
seasons for a livelihood.

Lissa had grown fully in the enjoyment of her home; and in the company
of her bright-eyed little daughter, who pattered about the house, adding
to her joy as well as care, she realized the ideal life of a mother.
What is it to her that away in the East the luxuries of life are
magnified, and things unessential to her are there necessities?

She has enough to eat, enough to wear, so far as comfort demands; and
the fashion periodical which is sent to her each month keeps her in
touch with the outside world. She can fashion the simple fabrics which
serve to replenish her wardrobe after the latest modes. She reads the
daily papers, sent to her in bundles six or eight at a time, and is
familiar with the doings of metropolitans. If the time shall ever come
when she shall need to go back to city life she will be ready.

Look at her now as she steps to the door in anticipation of Nathan’s
home-coming. Her shining ringlets hang about her fair face in the way
her husband loves best to see them; her arched, short upper lip
describes the Cupid’s bow over the full under one, and her large,
luminous black eyes, gleaming with slumbering fires, look out upon the
smooth, sunlit expanse before her. She is a beautiful and charming
picture of a happy and contented wife.

A half hour later Nathan entered and greeted the little woman tenderly,
while he noted with the eye of love the pallor of the upturned face.

“I am afraid the care of baby and all is getting to be too much for you
again,” he said. “I must get Neoka back from the post to help you. I
think she will prove more tractable, now the Quakers have had her in
charge so long. I want you to get out more. You are getting to look too
much like a cellar plant. Besides, we have visitors coming and I want
you to have time to enjoy them.”

Lissa’s eyes dilated eagerly.

“O Nate, it can’t be—Who is it? It _can’t be_—_mamma_?”

“Yes, dear, and Donald.”

“Mamma and Donald? But how did they come together? Where are they? O
Nate, I don’t understand!” And Lissa pressed her hand to her heart.

“There, there, dear. Don’t get excited. I’m afraid I’ve told you too
suddenly. Your mother stopped with Alice to have me come on and let you
know. They’ll be here after a little while. Donald is out tethering the
ponies, and waiting, for the same reason.”

“O Nate, now I’m entirely happy!” And Lissa caught up the child and
laughed and cried while she kissed it ecstatically.

“Hello, sis! Aren’t you embracing the wrong one? You might save a little
for the rest of us.” Lissa looked up to see Donald’s laughing face
framed in the doorway. She extended both hands to him. “O Don, I’m so
happy, I don’t know whether to laugh or cry!” she gasped, her tears
mingling with her smiles.

“Well, Lissa, I don’t actually know which is the more becoming to
you—perhaps both. I always did like April weather. You are fully as
dazzling as a rainbow now. It was rather bad for us to come and surprise
you, that’s a fact; but I knew you wouldn’t mind me, and Nathan tells me
you didn’t receive your mother’s letter.”