“No, and I’m glad I didn’t. I could never have waited for her to get
here; no, _never_! I should have started alone across the prairies,
horseback, to meet her. But how changed you are, Don. You look so much
taller and bigger, and—my!—so much older!”

“Ah, it’s the added wisdom of my college years,” replied Donald with
assumed gravity. “That’s what ages a fellow. It’s the Greek and Latin
that you see sticking out all over me that has changed me.”

Lissa looked up into the smiling eyes of this big brother and wondered
if it was those four years of hard study that had so chiseled and
thinned the boyish face of her remembrance.

“I suspect that mustache is responsible for some of the change,” she
said aloud.

“So? Shall I shave it off? It’s an outgrowth of _calculus_.”

“No, you’re all right as you are. I’m not sure but you’re improved.”

“O, that morsel of flattery is sweet, at last, and I’ve been fishing for
it so long,” said Donald, with an expansive sigh. “I rather expected you
to say at once, ‘how much handsomer you’ve grown!’”

“I am very glad I did not say it,” said Lissa, with a grimace. “But I
see mamma coming. Excuse me, Donald, I must run to meet her!” and Lissa,
with all the abandon of a school-girl, ran down the path to meet the
stately mother, whose tears were ready to mingle with those of her
beloved child. And when, a few moments later, Lissa came in clinging
fondly to the maternal arm, the crimson flush of excited pleasure in her
cheeks, the intervening years seemed to have been stricken out and one
saw but the girl of sixteen who so trustingly gave her future into
Nathan’s care and bade good-by to Donald in his Iowa home.

But there is little Lucy to be shown to grandma, and kissed and
commented upon, and the tea is cold, and the cakes in danger of being
spoiled before Lissa is recalled to her duties as hostess.

“Ah, Donald, dear, I shall let you all starve, I am sure, before I can
bring myself down to such mundane affairs as bread and butter again. How
delightful this is. I didn’t know I was homesick before, but now I think
I must have been. But how did you happen to be with mother, Don?” she
babbled.

“Our meeting was ‘purely accidental,’ as the fiction writers say. I saw
her at the station and heard her inquiring for a carriage to bring her
out here, and so I made bold to introduce myself. Of course she saw at a
glance the honesty in my face, and knew I was a confidence man—”

“Oh, oh!” cried Lissa.

“And I told her I was a poor navigator bound for the same harbor and we
set sail together,” Donald concluded.

Mrs. Clyne nodded. “That is true, notwithstanding Mr. Bartram’s rather
mixed metaphor,” she said, smiling.

“Ah, how strangely it happened, and fortunately. And now you will spend
the winter with us; and you, too, I hope, Donald.”

“I have to take charge of a surveying party for a few weeks. After that
I may be back to spend some time here.”

“Ah, yes, I remember you are a civil engineer. You will enjoy the
hunting in the winter on the buffalo grounds.”

“Not hunting buffalo, I hope. At the rate they are being slaughtered
they will soon be extinct,” said Nathan.

“Never fear, Nathan, I’ve little taste that way. It’s too noble an
animal,” replied Donald.

“Come, now, I have made new tea, and we will have supper. It’s _supper_
here, mother, instead of _dinner_, and I know you are all ravenously
hungry after your long ride of twenty-five miles from the station.”

“It seems to me an extremely long distance to be from a railway,” said
Mrs. Clyne, after they were seated around the table, where Lissa’s
silver shone resplendent. “How did you happen to come so far from one
when you bought?”

Nathan smiled.

“I took up the land first, believing at the time the line would run
nearer, and it is only a question of time when it will do so.”

“I suppose this is a great farming country.”

“We have much to contend with here,” said Nathan. “The ground is rich,
but has little depth. We are liable to have a wind-storm that will carry
the land from one farm to another.”