XVIII
MAJOR WALDEN


The fire was burning with active energy in the tall stove, and the dish
of water sitting upon it, “to keep the room healthy,” was sending forth
steam clouds, as Nathan and Lissa, after closing the door behind the
last departing guest, returned to their family room.

Donald had walked home with Esther McCleary, and Mrs. Clyne had retired
for the night, leaving them alone.

“It is an ugly night,” Nathan said, shivering and lifting his shoulders,
as he stood with his hands held behind him and his back to the stove.

“Yes, and I’m afraid I’m going to have neuralgia in my face again,” said
Lissa, pressing her cheek closer to the glowing heat of the fire.

“That’s too bad. I should think that wisdom-tooth would have done
troubling you some time. Ain’t it through yet?”

“No; I pity teething children, if they have the pain I have.”

“Better get good and warm before you go to bed. The house seems
unusually cool to-night.”

“It’s having the doors open so much. But, Nathan, what is the matter?
You have been uncommonly grave and silent all the evening. I hope you
have had no trouble at the office?”

“_I_ have had no trouble,—only,—well, something happened which was quite
unlooked for by me, anyway. Major Walden is in trouble, I think, though
I do not understand the nature of it.”

Lissa looked interested, and her eyes searched his face questioningly.

Nathan drew up a chair and sat down.

“We were both in the office looking over some notes and papers in the
desk this morning when the mail was brought in. There were two or three
letters and some newspapers, which latter he tossed over to me to
examine. While thus engaged I was startled by a strange sound from the
Major, and looking up I at first thought he was in a fit. His face was
pale and distorted, and he shook like a man with the ague. He clenched
an open letter in his hand, which I thought must be answerable for his
condition. I sprang to him and unbuttoned his collar, as he appeared to
be choking, and he seemed to be relieved, though it was some time before
he could control himself, or articulate. When he did, it was to hiss the
words ‘scoundrel, villain, devil!’ with insane fury. I did not know how
to act, or what to say to him, and so after shutting and fastening the
door, that no one might intrude on us,—an act which he seemed to
approve,—I stepped into a little private office opening from the room
and busied myself with the ledger accounts, while I waited for him to
grow calmer.

“It was fully an hour, I think, before he called me, and then I was
surprised at the change in him. He looked ten years older, and his face
had the pinched look of one recovering from an illness. His hands shook
and he seemed entirely unnerved. ‘Nathan,’ he said, ‘I have received a
severe shock, and it has proven almost too much for me. But there are
reasons why I wouldn’t want my family to know anything about it, and I
shall have to ask you to say nothing here of what you have heard or
witnessed. I will explain it all when I feel able to do so. At present I
think the best thing for me to do is to take a little change of air, and
I believe I’ll run down to Omaha for a day or two. I reckon I’m really
sick enough to warrant a day off,’ he said, trying to smile.

“‘Just call at noon and say to Mrs. Walden that I’ve gone to Omaha on
business. Had to hurry off to catch a train, or some such clap-trap, or
say—I’ll write a note to that effect. You see, I fancy she’d better not
see me now.’

“I told him his countenance would betray him, for he really looked ill,
and he had much better not go home if he wanted to conceal the fact, and
so he went off to the station and left me to fix up matters as best I
could. I am more puzzled about the matter, as I am familiar with all his
business affairs and investments, and know everything is ship-shape and
flourishing. However, as he promised to explain everything when he
returns, I need not speculate upon it now I suppose.

“There is another matter I wanted to speak of,” continued Nathan, “and
that is in regard to this man Russell. I don’t know what to think of
him. Mark is terribly opposed to him and his coming to their home, and
if we encourage Alice’s meeting him here—”

“I think Mark has no right to let unreasoning prejudice rule him the way
he does,” interrupted Lissa. “He knows nothing against him, and yet he
is ready to accuse him of all the crimes in the decalogue.”

“I don’t like to think of his power over Esther McCleary, Lissa.”