At last Tibby could stand the uncertainty no longer. She must know if
she was forgiven and reestablish the friendship between them, and thank
Donald for preserving her life.

She resolved to interrogate Mrs. Cramer, and act upon her advice.

For some reason she felt less reluctant to advise with her than with
Mrs. Wylie. She found her hostess putting on her wraps preparatory to
going out.

“My dear Mrs. Cramer,” she said coaxingly, “I want to see Donald
Bartram, and thank him for rescuing me. I was too ill to do so when he
was here, and besides I did not know the magnitude of the risk he ran.
Do you think it would be proper for me to send him a note, asking him to
call?” There was a touch of anxiety in Tibby’s tone.

“Why, certainly,” replied Alice. “We are not at all conventional here.
Besides, the straightforward way is always the best, I think.”

“I hope so,” responded Tibby soberly.

“Yes, you write your note, and I will take it over to him now. Mrs.
Wylie and I are going over to Lissa’s.”

“Here it is, I have written it beforehand,” Tibby returned, a flush of
carmine vividly emphasizing her embarrassment. “I would rather you did
not—that is—Mrs. Wylie need not know of it—at least not now,” she
stammered.

“Certainly not. I’ll give it to Donald myself.” And Alice took the
gingerly proffered note and slipped it into her pocket.

“It is all right, dear,” she smiled cheerily, in answer to the pathetic
questioning of Tibby’s eyes, and she tripped away blithely, happy at the
thought that she had made a discovery which would aid in adjusting
matters to her liking.

Alice awaited her opportunity to place the missive in Donald’s hand,
unobserved by any one else, and was pleased to see the start he gave as
he looked at it.

Alice Cramer, like every other womanly woman, was a born matchmaker, and
this evidence of contrition on the part of Tibby filled her benevolent
heart with delight. This submissive, questioning air of the girl was so
unlike her usual imperious manner that Alice augured much from it.

“You will go, Don?” she whispered when he again approached her.

“Yes, if you think best.” He met her eyes with an inquiring look.

Alice nodded.

“Now?”

“Yes.”

Donald set out across the fields toward Mark’s home with some
reluctance. He knew he had, by rescuing Tibby, put her, in a sense,
under obligation to him, and he dreaded to meet her upon such a footing.
He had remained away from her, resolved that until the remembrance of
that struggle in the storm had become less vivid, he would never force
his attentions upon her; would never annoy her with words of love.

“If she really cares for me she will be conscious of it in time, and I
shall know it,” he reflected. “I will not trade upon the service I have
done her. I want her _love_, not her _gratitude_.” And he set his lips
firmly in the resolution not to be betrayed into a renewal of his suit
until a more fitting season.

Donald found Tibby sitting dejectedly by the stove, her feet upon the
fender and her dimpled chin resting upon her pink, upturned palm, while
her eyes studied intently the red coals before her. This was the picture
of which he caught a glimpse through the low window as he approached the
door. At the sound of his footsteps she sprang up and came forward to
meet him, the scarlet flame of the fire blazing in cheek and lip.

“It is so nice of you to come,” she said, giving him her hand in
welcome. “You have been so shy of receiving thanks that you have
remained away an age.”

“I am glad if it has seemed an age to you,” he answered, smiling. “One
likes to have his absence noticed.”

“I didn’t realize how much—how very much I am indebted to you,” she
began shyly.

“Don’t, please, Miss Tibby. You know there is no question of debts or
credits between friends. I am thankful God gave me strength and
direction to find you. It is a serious thing to battle with the elements
in the West, Miss Waring.” Donald spoke gently and soberly.