XXIII
THE COUNTERPLOT


Mark sought a convenient opportunity to interview Tibby. He found the
girl one morning pacing slowly up and down the pathway leading to the
horses’ corral, her riding-whip in her hand and riding-skirt upon her
arm. She was smiling softly to herself and flipping the tops of the tall
balsam weeds with her whip as she passed them. She looked up, a
startled, challenging look in her large eyes as he approached her.

“Well, Miss Tibby, what new mischief are you hatching to-day?” Mark
asked as he joined her.

“None, I assure you. I was only thinking how I would like to see a
prairie on fire.”

“I trust the wish has not been father to the act. You haven’t set a
match to it?”

“O, no! I haven’t yet looked up a convenient hiding-place for myself.
And then I don’t believe I’m quite so bad as Nero. My desire to see a
burning Rome is not strong enough to make me set it on fire.”

“Indeed? You reassure me!”

“As if that were necessary.”

“You haven’t told me what you really think of us here, Miss Tibby.”

“I think it is lovely here; you have so much breathing space.”

“Is that all we are supposed to do—breathe?”

“There doesn’t seem to be a chance for much else. Now does that sound
impolite? I don’t mean it so.” Tibby flicked the toe of her boot with
her whip, and drew in one of the deep corners of her mouth as if she had
said something she ought not to.

“Not in the least impolite. It’s a fact. We may exist here, not much
else.”

“But I didn’t mean that. I like it here very much. But one is so free
from restraint, breathing seems the easiest and about the only necessary
thing to do.”

“You were country born?”

“Yes, and I remember it seemed there as if I was repressed and confined
and I looked yearningly out into the greater liberty of the world. Think
of it! From the freedom of country I longed for liberty.”

“And now?” Mark questioned.

“And now I am not tired of the other life. O, no. I enjoy it truly, only
I think part of the people one meets in society life are often very
silly and flat, as—as—” she hesitated for a comparison, then gave the
familiar one of her childhood,—“as dishwater.”

“Isn’t that the trouble with a part of the people everywhere? After all,
it’s a great thing to be to the manner born,” said Mark, setting his
large hat farther back upon his head, and looking the bright sun in the
face.

“Ain’t it? There is an ease, a consciousness of power, a—a something
which the very rich have which one may covet. Perhaps it is the
consciousness of always being well-dressed. I think that was what I used
to covet. As to birth, I had nothing to envy in any of them. My mother
was a Devereaux, my great uncle an earl.” Tibby lifted her chin with
conscious pride. Mark saw that the girl was still smarting from affronts
received when she was only Mrs. Wylie’s servant.

“Even in this democratic America we still are proud of what we please to
call blue blood, are we? Well, it may be foolish, but I reckon it won’t
hurt us,” said Mark. “I hope many of us are better men than our
ancestors of feudal times, however. Our women are certainly more
intelligent, if we may believe history.”

“Yes?” Tibby was looking out into the expanse dreamily, her eyes
narrowed and yellow in the sunlight.

“What do you call the restraints of society life?” questioned Mark
suddenly.

“The necessity of putting on war paint and feathers. The necessity of
hiding behind a mask of conventionality and pleasant phrases, of fine
clothes and fine speeches. I enjoy it immensely—immensely.” Tibby shut
her lips tightly to emphasize her words. “But after all, it is
artificial, and the only fun is seeing through it all. It’s really more
fun to be a spectator than an actor in a comedy. The actors see all the
tinsel and making up.”