Tibby tosses her red-brown curls and purses up her small mouth
expressively, then she remembers her quest.

“Just find this toad for me, Tom, and I’ll thank you ever so much,
that’s a good boy,” she purrs as she approaches the tree more closely.
“I want to see one for myself. Here, I’ll boost you up into the tree. I
think it’s out on that limb.”

And the good-natured Tom, declining her proffered aid, climbs the tree
with an agility born of long practice, while the girl feels her eyes
dilate with expectancy, and then he captures the singer and brings it to
her for inspection. Good Tom! Tibby feels these same eyes filling as she
looks upon this picture. The toad is a dull gray, and looks incapable of
producing these strident sounds. What a queer, homely thing it is. Ugh!

“Put it back upon the limb, Tom. I’m afraid to touch it,” she says with
a shiver, and Tom laughs contemptuously.

“You know about as much about toads as Bess does,” he says; “we saw some
toad-stools, last night, growing in the moss down on the bank and she
said, ‘O, ain’t they pretty, Tom? And to think the _toads made_ ’em,
too.’ Ha, ha, ha! she thought the toads made ’em.”

Tibby feels a little lump rise in her throat as she remembers this, and
as she turns away her head she sees, as she saw then, a glittering
carriage, drawn by a handsome span of bays, come swiftly down the big
hill on the east, and watches it with fascinated glance as it spins
across the level of the flats and up into the covered, wooden bridge. It
comes forth from the nearer end of the structure, and then something
happens, for almost before the house the horses come to a halt and the
driver springs out. Something has broken. Tibby knows that it must have
been caused by that steep pitch off the end of the bridge, which should
have been repaired, or filled in, long ago.

“There,” she says to Tom, “if Path-master Morton had attended to that
place, this wouldn’t have happened.”

“That comes from putting in politicians that don’t know beans from
broomsticks,” says Tom oracularly. “A man that don’t keep his own place
in repair can’t be expected to look after the public ones.”

The driver examines the carriage closely, and then comes into the yard
and asks for hammer, nails, and other repairing material. Tom runs for
the supplies, while Tibby watches a small lady, accompanied by a
yellow-haired boy with long curls and kilts, step daintily from the
broken carriage and enter the yard. The lady smiles upon Tibby and asks
if she may sit down to wait under the shade of the patriarchal old tree;
and Tibby replies to her questioning, while she sits before her and
tells her of her brothers and sisters, and her heart swells with pride
at the lady’s praise of her home and surroundings. Her eyes follow those
of the lady to the old-fashioned, weather-brown farm-house, with its
low-browed gables and spreading lean-tos, built apparently without
regard to economy of ground space; then to the left, where upon a little
lower ground the great red-roofed barns and spacious corn-cribs stand,
and again to the nodding, smiling flowers dotting the lawn.

Yes, it was beautiful, the old home, with all its homely comforts, but
Tibby had longed to try her wings in flight to seek other fields of
enchantment.

By and by the little boy becomes restless and begs his mother to go and
ride, fidgets and whimpers. Tibby wishes to amuse him, and looks at him
longingly, until he comes and puts his small hands in her brown ones,
and she tells him of the little singing toad in the tree-top, and of the
twittering squirrels who make the elm their home, until his brown eyes
grow heavy and he falls asleep in her arms. Then Tibby sits and feasts
her eyes on the strange lady’s costume, a poem of harmony in color and
fit,—though Tibby does not name it thus,—and feels the contrast between
this lady’s attire and her own, marvels at the glittering jewels on her
white fingers, and alas, in the girl’s heart, a dormant wild desire
springs into active growth. She longs to go with this city-bred woman
and have dainty boots and beautiful gowns.

Does the cry which she feels within herself reach the heart of the lady?
Surely, surely her lips have not spoken, but the stranger lady, as if
understanding her thought, says:

“What a nice way you have with children, my dear. I should like to have
a girl like you to live with me and help me to look after Robert. You
have done wonders with him. He is usually averse to strangers. How would
you like to go home with me?”

“I should like it very much indeed,” she replies, with conviction.

“You have no mother, I believe you said,” the lady continues.

“Yes, a stepmother. The children are my half-brothers, except Tom and
Bess. Our mother died when I was a little girl.”

“And what are you now?” asks the lady, smiling.