I
THE FAIR UNKNOWN


The great bell of the cathedral chimed musically the hour of six, its
vibrant tones mingling with the muffled din and clangor of smaller
bells, steam whistles, town clocks and street-car jingle, making itself
heard above the roar and rattle of travel over the stone-paved streets
of the Forest City.

Away at the north the blue lake rolled, its waters dotted by the many
white-clothed vessels and smoke-trailing steamships. The whole was made
bright by a lowering, unveiled sun, which ere long must sink to rest in
its waves. At the south a heavy cloud of smoke and vapor rested above
the river flats, hiding the blackened roofs of the shops and
manufactories, only broken by the scarlet tongues of fire that
occasionally shot upward from seething furnaces and tall chimneys.

The rattle upon the pavement grew louder, and the confusion of sounds
greater, as the crowds of workmen thronged the streets, homeward-bound,
after the hard day of labor.

At an upper window of La Grande Hotel a lady, screened by the hanging
folds of the curtain drapery, looked out upon the multitude of
pedestrians hurrying along the sidewalk below. The close-fitting gown of
soft, light material revealed a plump, stylish little figure, most
attractive in its fashionable perfection. Against the dark wood of the
window-casing rested a white, rounded wrist, and delicate, dimpled hand,
upon the fingers of which glittering stones caught the rich sunlight and
showered it in rainbow splendor upon the opposite wall.

The fluffy rings of fair hair that rested above her forehead seemed
appropriate adornment to the bright, girlish face and careless, smiling
eyes, that showed so certainly her exemption from sorrow and care.

The perfection and harmony of her costume showed also that she belonged
to that class that “Toil not, neither do they spin,” but are the
beautiful exponents of the art of modiste and hairdresser.

Across the room, resting indolently in an easy chair, a gentleman
studied the third edition of the _Daily Leader_, apparently oblivious of
the presence of the fair lady at the window. He, too, had the well-fed,
well-groomed look of the man with full purse and few anxieties, together
with an air of unmistakable elegance and worldly wisdom.

In age he appeared five and thirty. His face was smooth shaven, except
for the long, drooping mustache which shaded the corners of his
firm-lipped mouth. His dark hair, inclined to curl, was closely cropped.
His brown eyes were marvelously clear and penetrating, his forehead
broad and particularly full above the temples. His heavy, massive build,
with the squarely cut and rather prominent chin gave him an awesome
individuality, which was counteracted by the exceeding graciousness,
gentleness, and courtesy of his manner.

He was well known in business circles, a man keen, shrewd, and full of
worldly cunning, but as honest and upright as the majority of his
compeers who make or lose fortunes in a day at the mart of speculation.

At present he was connected with a steel industry, and greatly
interested in the fluctuations of the ore and coal market, the strikes
at the mines, and the attitude of the United States Congress with
reference to tariff rates. He was yet studying the columns before him,
and balancing in his mind the advisability of recalling salesmen from
certain localities, when the lady interrupted his thought.

“Horace, have you ever noticed that pretty, sad-looking woman, dressed
in black, who goes by here so frequently, leading a little child?”

“Pretty, sad woman, dressed in black—small child. A definite
description, truly. How many in this delightful city will answer to the
same, think you? Pretty—in a city noted for handsome women; sad—few are
happy; dressed in black—the fashionable street dress at present; and
small child—not a scarce article, I believe. Really, Nellie, you must be
more specific.” And Mr. Wylie laid his paper carefully over the arm of
his chair and smiled provokingly at his wife.

“Oh, you are too bad! This lady has such a sweet face, she is really
conspicuous, and she always comes down Leader Avenue at about this hour
and turns down Herald Street, going into one of those blocks across the
way. I feel quite sure she gets sewing to do, for she usually carries a
good-sized parcel with her. She is very interesting.”

“Why, my dear, I am surprised at your enthusiasm. You really seem to
have been cultivating a habit of observation.” Mr. Wylie leaned his head
against the back of his chair and looked at his wife through half-closed
eyes, while with his large, shapely hand he softly stroked his smooth
chin.

“A woman with a parcel and a mystery,” he continued. “I am not sure but
you would shine as a female detective, Nellie. Shall I send in your name
at the next meeting of the police board?”