“Mrs. McCleary was all right until she became a convert to this accursed
spiritism,” said Mark. “I have known her for years. She used to live
near my old home in Iowa, and was a good, capable woman; but she seems
now to have no interest in anything that does not come from the other
world. If Esther should die and become a spirit she might become an
object of her interest and solicitude. I am utterly disgusted with
Russell and all of his nonsense about spirit manifestations, and
revelations, and the like. In my opinion, all the spirit he communes
with is the spirit of evil, his Satanic majesty. I can’t have a bit of
faith in the fellow, and I believe Nathan feels as I do about it.”

“O, come now,” said Alice, “you are too bad, Mark. Professor Russell
certainly believes in his creed himself, and is honest in his
convictions, whether they be right or wrong.”

“I even doubt that,” replied Mark.

“He foretold your coming here to-day. What do you think of that?” asked
Alice triumphantly.

“I think he probably saw Wish-has-ta, who told him we would certainly
come back for him, or possibly he may have seen me in C—— after my
arrival. I stopped there several hours. Depend upon it, he learned it
from no disembodied spirit.”

“And more than that, Mark, he told us about our sister Elsie, and I am
sure he could not have heard about her,” Alice continued.

“Unless he may have heard you talking about her, with mother or Lissa,
lately.”

Lissa flushed.

“How suspicious you are, Mark. I am sure he might have learned these
things through spirit agency, as well as many others which can be
explained in no other way.”

“How do you know, Alice, that they can be explained in no other way?”

“But have not all tribes and races believed in spiritualism since the
beginning of the world,” said Mrs. Clyne.

“In a kind of spiritualism, perhaps; so have they believed in many other
_isms_, but that does not prove them true,” replied Mark. “The heathen
searchers after God have found Him in the water, in the fire, in the
sun, and in the creatures of His making, and have worshiped the spirit
of the universe as manifested in material things; but these so-called
spiritists put aside the Creator and make a religion of a belief in
spirits of mortals, like themselves.”

“But do you not think this should strengthen one’s faith in the soul’s
immortality? Are we not spirits living in material bodies? And when the
material body dies, if our spirits are immortal, why should not they
seek to manifest themselves to their friends on earth? I am sure if you
would read Davis’s works you would have less scepticism,” said Alice
with some warmth.

“Alice, have you been reading them?” Mark spoke quickly and almost
harshly. The color deepened in Alice’s face.

“Certainly I have, and many others. What harm can come of learning all
one can? I am sure we should not condemn any creed until we investigate
it.”

Mark frowned. “Where did you get all these books?”

“Professor Russell has brought them to us, and mother, Lissa and I have
read them at his request, and I assure you we have been much interested
in them.”

“All of them, as well as Swedenborg, teach sound morality and oppose
evil.”

“Your Bible teaches you that, Alice; and as I understand it, it does
_not_ teach you that the spirit of mortal man comes back on earth to
perform the absurd feats of overturning tables, rapping and tapping upon
furniture, making it dance around the room, and like antics. It seems to
me, if I were a spirit, I would prefer to be engaged in some more
dignified occupation.”

“I hope, Mark,” said Mrs. Clyne, “you won’t let prejudice make you
unjust. There is certainly much about this matter which we cannot
understand, and is it not our duty to learn all we can?”

“Mother, there _is_ much about this that I don’t understand, neither do
I understand how the juggler or the East Indian magician performs his
marvelous feats, nor can I see that it is necessary for us to know.”

“But if the knowing would be valuable to us? If we should learn from
it?”