“The man brought the punishment upon himself. He wantonly shot an Indian
woman. It was a terrible method of torture, however. He was flayed
before the eyes of his friends, and afterwards burned, I am told.”

“Oh, dreadful, dreadful!”

“The remainder of the party were allowed to go, I believe, after being
made to witness his suffering and death. I used to know the man when I
lived in Illinois,” Nathan added. “Remember, it is not so many years
ago. We are to go among the same tribe of Indians. Probably those who
committed the outrage are still living.”

“Don’t let us speak of it. It horrifies me. I will look up the date of
my dream in my journal, when we get home, and see if it corresponds with
the date of the tragedy. If it should prove to be the same, I should
believe that I saw the crime in my sleep. Ugh!”

“We will stop to rest under this tree,” said Nathan. “This is the first
large tree we have seen for some distance.”

Later in the day they halted at a ranch, and bought some delicious
water-melons of a smiling and inquisitive Dutch farmer, who grew them.
After mid-day they stopped by the side of a lovely, quiet river, and
enjoyed their luncheon, taken in this primitive fashion.

“I wonder if I was ever so hungry before,” said Lissa. “These peaches
are delicious, and surely melons were never so sweet and appetizing. The
biscuits are ambrosia and this lemonade is nectar. It was a good idea to
bring this ice, for the river water must be very warm to drink.”

The lunch ended, Lissa went down to the water and bathed her face and
hands in its limpid depths. Suddenly she found the skirt of her gown
covered with persistent burrs, which stuck to her fingers as she tried
to remove them, and pricked and irritated her hands intolerably.

Nathan laughed heartily at her discomfiture.

“Why, those are only sand-burrs, dear. I wonder if you have never before
made their acquaintance? We have no patent upon them, and you may find
them in many parts of the country, East and West. We don’t lay entire
claim to them here.”

“I should hope not,” said Lissa ruefully; “at least, we might dispense
with them, if they would permit us to, which is doubtful.”

Lissa tried again to free herself from the noxious weed. With Nathan’s
help she at last succeeded, and they resumed their journey.


The sun was painting the western horizon a glorious crimson when they
entered the last town on their route.

“Now, Lissa, we have twenty miles farther to travel before reaching
home. We have already come over forty miles to-day. Shall we stop in
this town and wait until morning?”

“O, no, no, no, not for anything. Alice will be looking for us and I am
so anxious to see her and our home. Do let us go on, or will it be too
great a drive for our horses?”

“They can endure it better than you, but I don’t think Alice will expect
you before to-morrow night. People usually take four days to drive
through. However, if you wish we will not stop.”

It was pleasant driving in the cool of the evening and the ponies sped
along rapidly, apparently little wearied by the many miles behind. They
had gone but a part of the distance, however, when the sound of a
galloping horse over the soft turfed ground struck upon the ear. Soon it
was beside them and a cheery voice saluted them.

“Hello, Nathan, is that you?”

“Why, Mark, how d’you do?”

Nathan grasped the hand of the handsome, yellow-haired fellow who came
along beside the wagon.

“This is our brother, Mark Cramer, Lissa.”

“And this is the little sister I have known so well, but never seen,”
said Mark. “You are very welcome to this western borderland, I assure
you. Alice is wild with happy anticipation of your coming.”

Lissa’s sister had come West and married the year before, and this was
Lissa’s first meeting with her brother-in-law.

“I heard in C—— that you were seen to drive through, so I hurried on to
catch you. My horse is fleet, but I have run him all the way. You drive
fast.”