Then, as Tibby spoke to him, he backed a little, and again struck the
ground with his foot.

“Soh! Good fellow, good fellow! Come here!” Tibby paused, and holding
out her hand beckoned the animal toward her. Then they stood looking at
one another steadily. Finally the roan took a few steps forward,
striking the ground, and seeming to question her right to command him.

“Come here, I tell you!” said Tibby imperiously, again, and to the
surprise of all the horse once more took a few steps nearer her.
Haltingly it walked toward her, nearer, its eyes fixed on the girl and
her outstretched hand. A few more steps and it was within reach, and
Tibby’s hand was upon its nose and she had conquered.

“Well, I’m astonished at that!” exclaimed Mark. “He’s the Devil’s own,
usually. He must have an eye for beauty, the rascal.”

Tibby stood and stroked the animal’s nose, whispering to him as she did
so, and feeding him grass which she pulled from the ground.

“You are not afraid, Tempest. You must always come when I call you. Soh!
Good Tempest; come, sir, come! I’ll show you to the mistress.” And Tibby
turned toward the house, the horse following the hand touching his nose.

“Why, if that girl ain’t leading Tempest!” Alice exclaimed. “He’s the
wildest colt of the lot. Even Mark hasn’t been able to do much with him,
he’s so vixenish. And without a bridle! How did she manage it?”

“She can manage almost anything,” laughed Mrs. Wylie. “I sometimes think
she manages all of us. I don’t know how we should get along without
her.”

“Where did you find her?”

“In a country place not far from Forest City. I took her for a nurse
girl for Robbie, but as I wrote you, I’ve made a companion and daughter
of her. She is invaluable in any capacity. The only trouble I have is
keeping the young men from running off with her. She attracts a great
deal of attention wherever we are stopping, and woe be it to any young
woman who purposely ignores her. She makes her a wall-flower from that
time on, and draws away every young man who would pay the offending one
any attention.”

“But how can she do it? Of course she is remarkably handsome, but that
does not always—”

“The goodness knows! It’s her own secret. Sometimes I think it is her
compelling eyes that bring every one to her upon whom she casts them.
Haven’t you noticed that quality in them?”

“They are wonderfully bright, and—electrical,” replied Alice.

“Electrical? Yes, that is the word. Aren’t they? I can sound Tibby’s
praises by day and night. One feels them ever when not looking at her.”

“Well,” said Mrs. Cramer, “we have very few young men here. None of much
account, except Donald Bartram. He is nice, and entirely eligible, so
you need not fear him. The girl is remarkably attractive.”

Tibby Waring had indeed become an important element in Mr. Wylie’s
household. Every one liked her, from Robbie, who was restless and uneasy
in her absence, to Grandma Wylie, who, when she made her annual visits,
insisted that Tibby was better than a doctor to relieve her aches and
rheumatic pains. And Mr. and Mrs. Wylie found need of her on all
occasions.

From the position of servant she had become a daughter of the house. Her
ready wit and imperturbably good humor made her a welcome adjunct in the
parlor, and if some of Mrs. Wylie’s society friends sneered and
complained of her when by themselves for her presumption in forcing an
unknown girl upon them, they were careful not to shadow forth any
dislike in her presence. Latterly, when traveling, Mrs. Wylie had
introduced her as a foster-daughter, and thus Tibby was saved any
affronts.

Alice Cramer was never weary of watching both Tibby and her
sister-in-law and feasting upon the brightness and freshness of their
apparel, with the many little accessories of fashion which, of late,
were unknown to her. And Mrs. Wylie herself was like a wild bird set at
liberty. She sang and rode with Tibby and Mark over the plains, her
fluffy blonde hair blowing in the wind, and her pink and white
complexion, which no wind could mar, only took on a richer tinge, more
healthful and attractive. But she became alarmed at the peculiarities
which she observed in Alice.

One day, while galloping over the soft turf, she questioned her brother.

“Mark, is Alice entirely sane?”

“Sane, Nellie! What do you mean?”