XII
A NEW MEDIUM


“My dear Mrs. Lucien—why, what is the matter?”

Mrs. Wylie ran hurriedly to her friend’s side, but stopped, frightened
at the unseeing, vacant stare which met her. During the fortnight
intervening since the seance she had met her friend daily, but never had
seen her as now.

Mrs. Lucien sat by a small sewing-table, her hands resting upon it, her
eyes gazing vacantly into space. Her expression was uncanny in its
fixity, and her hands moved restlessly over the smooth surface before
her. Her aspect was that of one whose outer senses were locked and all
thought and sight turned inward.

The little Dolores, who had opened the door to Mrs. Wylie, resumed her
position by her mother, her hands resting in her mother’s lap, her
troubled eyes searching her mother’s face.

Mrs. Wylie, unable to win any response or recognition, stood silent and
frightened, watching the entranced woman. Then her eyes fell upon the
swiftly moving fingers. What was she doing? Surely she was forming
letters—writing. Was it possible? She seemed to see her own name spelled
from the ends of those fingers. Mrs. Wylie had seen such things before
from professed mediums. Suddenly a thought came to her. She detached the
little gold pencil from her watch guard and laid in with her
shopping-tablet on the table before the woman. In a moment Mrs. Lucien
seized the pencil and was writing rapidly, her eyes still fixed and
unseeing.

When she at last relinquished the tablet Mrs. Wylie took it up, and read
in letters scrawling and unlike the chirography of her friend, the
following:


“My dear friend:

“Why do you hesitate on the dark borders of prejudice and ignorance? Why
not come into the full light of the truth? Our hands would gladly lead
you if you would take them. There is much to believe that is truth;
there is much to reject that is untruth. You accept much untruth. But
you shall soon know all.

“E. M. B.”


What did this meaningless missive prove? That Mrs. Lucien was other than
she seemed? Mrs. Wylie could think of no one having those initials. Ah,
yes. She did have a friend, long ago, by the name of Emma Boyleson. She
could not remember her middle name, or if she had one. It might have
been “M.” But she was dead, died a long while ago, when only a little
more than a child. And why, if it came from her,—Mrs. Wylie’s instincts
denied the possibility,—why should she write such stuff as this? Simply
to mystify her? Could she be mistaken in Mrs. Lucien? Could it be
possible that she was one of those dreaded charlatans? But if so, how
could she have known anything about Emma Boyleson? She had never
mentioned her, so far as she could remember, even to Mr. Wylie.

She would arouse Mrs. Lucien and sift this affair thoroughly.

“Mrs. Lucien! Mrs. Lucien!” she said imperatively.

She was gratified to see a change pass over the woman’s face. Mrs.
Lucien started, shivered, pressed her hands to her forehead.

“What is the matter, Mrs. Lucien,” again demanded Mrs. Wylie, bending
over her.

The dazed woman brushed her eyes and looked about her.

“Have I been asleep?” she asked plaintively.

“Yes, and writing me a letter in your dreams,” chirruped her visitor
gaily. “Now you may arouse yourself and interpret it for me.”

Mrs. Lucien shook her head, while the look of awe deepened in her face.

“Ah, can it be possible,” she murmured, “that Dr. Lyman told me the
truth, and that I am really a medium? How strange it seems, and yet he
promised me it should be.”

“You a medium?” Mrs. Wylie shrank from her hostess involuntarily.

“Yes, Dr. Lyman told me I was mediumistic, and that if I would sit down
at just the same time every evening, and allow myself to become entirely
passive I would soon be made the instrument to take and convey the words
of the invisible to the visible. I did not think, however, to obtain
this so soon.”