VII
IN THE NEW HOME


The next morning when Lissa awoke the sun was shining brightly in
through one of the small windows of her adobe house and she had leisure
to look about her, and to survey this new, and to her, novel style of
architecture.

The house was built of sod and mud, the roof being formed of poles of
cotton-wood covered with sod, and brightly green with the upspringing
grass. The inside of the house was lined by a strong paper, firmly
stretched and fastened at the corners, and presented a smooth and
cleanly looking wall. Through the windows Lissa could see the vast
prairies level gray, dotted with small houses, similar in construction
to this one to which her husband had brought her.

There were but two large rooms in the house, and one bed-room. No second
story, as the roof was low. A large cupboard stood in one corner of the
kitchen and another in the bed-room.

“That shall be my dressing-case,” said Lissa to herself; “in this other
I will put up some hooks and a curtain, for a wardrobe.”

Just back of the house was a symmetrical little grove of cotton-wood
trees of perhaps three or four years’ growth. Some ponies corralled
near, together with herds of cattle grazing at a distance, gave life to
the scene; the sunlit grass sparkled and waved invitingly, and the halo
of the early morning enveloped all, presenting a landscape of pleasing
attractiveness.

All this Lissa noted with the eye of an artist as, while dressing, she
peered from the door and window, wondering what had become of Nathan,
for he had risen while she slept.

She was interrupted in her musing by the arrival of Alice, who came in,
bright and cloud-dispelling, bearing a basket which she placed on the
table, while she laughed at the wonder in Lissa’s large eyes.

“I’ve come to take you over to breakfast with me,” she said. “Ah, I see
you haven’t even thought of breakfast yet. What a lazy girl! We get up
early here in the West. The sun doesn’t have to climb any mountains or
tall tree-tops before he reaches us. Why, how bewildered you look! I’ve
been to the post this morning, pony and I. Nate sent by me to get a few
things which are in the basket.”

“You don’t mean to say you carried that big basket on the back of that
diminutive pony?” Lissa exclaimed.

“To be sure I did, and another one like it. But come now, we’ll walk
over. It will give you an appetite for breakfast.”

When Lissa had once more returned to her own home, which, humble as it
was, had an irresistible attraction for her, she found plenty of
employment in unpacking and arranging the contents of the large trunks
which had been brought out from C—— the previous day. Although at first
it seemed impossible to find places for so many things, there was
pleasure in devising ways and means. Lissa found that the trunks could
be utilized as packing-cases and window-seats, the dry-goods boxes
converted into cupboards and wardrobes, and before many hours, with
Nathan’s assistance, she had succeeded in arranging everything to her
satisfaction.

As they were seated at their little table for an early tea, Lissa
suddenly gave a faint scream and overturned a cup of the scalding fluid
which she was handing to her husband, soiling the snowy whiteness of the
table-cloth.

“Why, Lissa, what is the matter?” cried Nathan, in alarm; but following
the direction of her eyes, he saw the face of an Indian flattened
against the pane of glass of their small window, and his alarm changed
to mirth.

The redman, seeing he was noticed, presented himself at the door, and
drawing in his chest, and assuming a most woe-be-gone expression, said
“te-cawpox,” accompanying his words by a gesture indicating that he
desired something to eat.

“He says he is hungry,” said Nathan. “What can we give him?”

Lissa lifted the plate of warm biscuits from the table, but Nathan
interposed.

“He’ll take them all without any compunction if you offer them,” he
said, and selecting a couple, he handed them to the Indian, who dropped
them into a dirty-looking sack he carried, then spoke again in his harsh
guttural words, which Nathan interpreted as a request for water-melon.

“He knows I have them growing out here and has probably helped himself
as fast as they have ripened, in my absence. Now he will beg the
remainder. Well, I must give him one, I suppose.” And going to the
little garden at the side of the house he plucked one from the vines and
gave it to the Indian, who returned a grunt of satisfaction and
departed.