III
THE NEW ACQUAINTANCE


“I have succeeded in becoming acquainted with the lady in black,”
remarked Elinor Wylie, a few days subsequent to the date of the
beginning of this story, as, with her husband, she came slowly up from
the dining-room and entered their private apartment. “Did I tell you?”

“No, I think not. Do you find her as interesting as fancy painted her?”
drawled Mr. Wylie languidly.

“Yes, more so. At least, I find her very refined and cultured. She has
surely been in better circumstances.”

“Ah, the pity of it, in this world of ours!” replied Mr. Wylie, throwing
himself into a luxurious armchair and shaking his head expressively. “It
is the story common to the lives of too many Americans. One day we’re
dining at Delmonico’s, the next, starving in a hovel. Ah, seductive,
evanescent, elusive Fortune, why do we trifle with you? To me the pathos
of life is epitomized in the words, ‘She has seen better days.’”

“I have engaged her to sew for me.”

“Indeed!” Mr. Wylie’s eyebrows were elevated quizzingly. “What has
become of Madame Somers?”

“I found out by asking Mrs. Wallace,” continued Mrs. Wylie, following
her own train of thought, and ignoring his question, “that the block on
Herald Street had an establishment for making and selling ready-made
clothing, so that I felt sure she did sewing, and I followed her home
one day and saw her enter a stairway leading up over Mrs. Dray’s
hairdressing rooms. I accordingly asked Mrs. Dray if she could tell me
where I might find a woman to do plain sewing or embroidery, and she
spoke at once of a worthy woman in the block who wanted to get work, and
directed me to her rooms. She is on the third floor, in wretched little
quarters, but she has pretty things about her. She met me kindly, and
when I made known my business, seemed glad to get work. I’m thankful
that I went, for, if you will believe me, Horace, she had been making
buttonholes for Darkson at a quarter of a cent apiece, supporting
herself and child upon that.”

“Such things are painful to hear of,” said Mr. Wylie, shaking his head
again. “I trust you will pay her better.”

“Of course. And, Horace, she has been making cotton blouses and overalls
for workmen for eighty-five cents a dozen. Think of it.”

“I suppose you learned her name and history?” he interrogated.

“Yes—no—” hesitated Mrs. Wylie. “I learned her name was, or at least she
told me to call her Mrs. Lucien, and the child’s name is Dolores. Odd,
isn’t it? She nicknames her Dolly. Such a sweet little creature, too. I
wonder if that is Mrs. Lucien’s real name?” she continued musingly as
she toyed with a tassel of the upholstering.

Mr. Wylie sank into the depths of his chair and studied the opposite
wall intently for several moments.

“I wish,” he said, “I could think of whom it is she reminds me. I
believe if I could see her gowned in white silk and diamonds I should
remember.”

“What an idea,” laughed his wife. “I should like to see her so dressed,
I confess. She should have more color in that pale face and less sadness
in those dark eyes, then she would shine in such a brilliant setting.
Yes, I am sure she has a history.”

“Which you did not learn?”

“Which I did not learn.”

Again Mr. Wylie sat wrapped in thought, stroking his massive chin
softly.

“Do you remember, Nell, all who composed our party two years ago in the
Adirondacks? Or was it _three_ years?”

“More nearly four, I think. Why, there was Judge Matthews and wife; the
Misses Eldridge—just think, Fannie is married; Mrs. Harmon and her
brother; Tiny Lewis, Dr. Bessemer, and Cousin Harry and
Lottie,—and—no—let me see! That was all that there were at Paul Smith’s,
I believe, except the time that we went to Au Sable Chasm we met
Major—oh—what was his name, that Major Somebody and his wife, that
Cousin Harry was so taken with at the fancy ball? Don’t you remember
her, Horace? They went to Childwold with us, too.”

Mr. Wylie started.

“Ah, I remember! He went West. He did have a lovely wife. I wonder if
she is the one I am reminded of.”