“Are they? I can’t help it. I remember nothing since Mr. Bartram made me
laugh in the circle,—oh, he was witness to my disgraceful
exhibition!—until I seemed to hear the Professor’s voice, and looking up
I saw you there.”

“You say you seem to have heard dance-music in a dream?”

“Yes, I have a feeling as though I had been floating up in the air and
hearing music. A sort of dim remembrance of a dream. Oh, if mamma would
never compel me to see him again! I shall leave home and go where he
shall never find me if that man continues to come to our house. He is so
detestable! I hate him!” And the girl shuddered and again covered her
face with her hands.

“I have told mamma so, but she will not listen to me. She is wholly
wrapped up in the belief of spirits, and in Russell.”

“Your dislike is very strong to be based only upon this power he has of
making you dance hypnotically,” Mark said. “Are you just to him?”

“I have reasons enough for my dislike of him,” Esther replied,
compressing her lips. “And what am I to do if my own mother will not
listen to me? Think of being subject to the power of such a man. I
believe him thoroughly unprincipled, and—”

“The villain! If he dares!” Mark ground his teeth.

Here Lissa put her head in at the door.

“Come, Mark,” she whispered, “Professor Russell is writing messages.”

Mark stepped quietly into the sitting-room just as the Professor, who
sat at a small table scrawling with a pencil a profusion of characters
on a sheet of writing-paper, finished it and paused, while the paper was
passed from hand to hand for examination.

At first nothing could be made of it. Finally some one discovered it was
addressed to Lissa. Another read it Alice, and still another Anna.

By this time the Professor had aroused himself, and read with little
difficulty:


“Lissa, my dear sister: How long I have desired to speak with you and
let you know I am near you. The only added happiness I could wish for in
this life is recognition of my friends on earth. If you will let me
converse with you, and Alice, and mother, I will improve every
opportunity. I can see you, so cast away all doubt and fear, and help me
to communicate with you. Believe,

ELSIE.”


Lissa found she could trace the words as read, now that she knew what
they were.

The Professor produced two slates, between which he placed a small
pencil, and immediately all in the room heard distinctively the sound of
the scratching of the pencil as it apparently wrote upon the slate.

When the slates were brought forth from beneath the table and opened
there was a long communication upon one of them for Mrs. McCleary,
purporting to have come from her mother, and Mrs. McCleary declared it
was in her own handwriting. She could “recognize it anywhere,” she said.

Whereupon Sol Garrett took part in the conversation.

“I’ve been a thinkin’ sence I sot here a good deal about this here
writin’ business. An’ it seems to me mighty curis how my old mother came
to write me a message when she never in her hull life writ me a word,
nor never learnt how. Even her will was signed with her cross-mark. I
reckon she must ‘a ben learnin’ pretty fast sence she died.”

Donald’s eyes twinkled merrily as he glanced at Russell’s face, which
really showed embarrassment for a moment.

“We cannot tell, Mr. Garrett, what her opportunities may have been in
the other world. We may know hereafter much that is hidden from us now,”
he said after a little preliminary cough to clear his throat.

“Well, how is it that Injun control o’ yourn hain’t learned to read an’
write, if their chances are so good over there? He allus complains
’cause he can’t read.”

“Perhaps because he is of another language and nation,” replied Russell,
evidently annoyed at the persistence of his interlocutor.

“Wall, ye see my mother was a Scotch woman, and didn’t talk as we do,
an’ I can’t see how she come to use such perty English in that letter.”