“What do you think of hypnotism as a factor in healing, Doctor?”

“Well, the French have been experimenting somewhat with that. It is even
a more dangerous agent to use than electricity. Hypnotism may be
dangerous even if self-imposed. For one thing, I believe it is
enervating to the will, and a person controlled by the will of another
may be evilly influenced. Again, what is insanity but the loss of
control of the will over the subjective mind. Each time a person yields
himself to the control of another or suffers himself to be put in the
condition called trance, is he not approaching the borderland of
insanity?”

“I suppose, generally speaking, a sound nervous organization is not
susceptible to hypnotic influence.”

“Not as susceptible as the more frail, disturbed ones.”

“But, Doctor, it is a great thing to control delirium and render a
subject insensible to pain, even during a surgical operation.”

“Yes, if it can be done. I am told that it has been done, and may serve
with a certain class of subjects; but it will not reset a broken arm nor
remove a cancer. I have not much use for it.”

“Beware, Doctor, we have not learned all its possibilities yet. By the
way, that Major Walden and his wife are a fine couple.”

“Yes; did you ever hear that they had been twice married?”

“Twice married? No; how was that?”

“Why, it seems that a rascally spirit-medium separated them ten or
fifteen years ago, and the Major married again. Fortunately, or
unfortunately as the case may be, number two was smashed up in a railway
wreck and the story turned out in the orthodox fashion. She herself used
to be a clairvoyant or something of the kind.”

“What, not that pretty woman he has with him now?”

“The same. I heard her myself once, out in Denver.”

“Ugh! That is incredible. She is the last one I should think of
connecting with the idea of spirit-mediumship. She looks as innocent as
an angel.”

“Ah, my friend, see what prejudice will do. She is as innocent as one,
in my opinion. She was merely self-deceived as to the source of her
power, and not understanding it, supposed it supernatural. It is a
wonder it had not either killed her or made her insane, for even
self-imposed hypnotism, as I said before, seems to weaken and wear both
the mental and physical beings, and where one escapes injury, many
suffer from it. But we all hug our delusions. The more monstrous, the
dearer they are to us.”

“And yet, as you have already stated, what may appear false to us in one
generation may prove to be truth in the next.”

“Yes; but remember the hunter after Truth took from his breast the
shuttle of Imagination and wound on it the thread of his wishes, and so
wove his net to entrap Truth. What we must do is to hunt for Truth with
a different net, one in which credulity and desire have no place.”

“But, Doctor, who shall determine when we have complied with the
requirements? May each generation pass away, holding but a feather from
Truth’s wing in his hand? Shall we believe in nothing of which a shadow
of doubt remains in our minds? What creed—what _ism_ can bear the test?”

“We read, ‘By their fruits ye shall know them.’ We are also told that
Truth is the work of God, falsehood the work of man. If any belief bear
evil fruit, shall we not reject it? According to Froude, ‘The practical
_effect_ of a belief is the real test of its soundness.’ Let us apply
that test to modern beliefs. Wherever we find misery, wretchedness, or
demoralization concomitant or subsequent, let us reject the creed or
belief as false and dangerous.”


We have been told to learn of the philosophers always to look for
natural causes in all extraordinary events; and when such natural causes
are wanting, recur to God.

------------------------------------------------------------------------




TRANSCRIBER’S NOTES


1. Silently corrected obvious typographical errors and variations in
spelling.
2. Retained archaic, non-standard, and uncertain spellings as printed.
3. Enclosed italics font in _underscores_.