“If so, he shall pay dearly for his joke!” Mark exclaimed. “Ah, my poor
little sister! My poor Elinor!”

“Don’t, Mark! Think of Robbie hearing you! There is surely some
mistake.”

“It’s a mistake he shall rue,” he groaned.

But Mark’s anger gave way to fear as hour after hour went by and Elinor
only awoke from one swoon to go into another. Mark paced the floor,
distracted with anxiety.

“Poor Nellie, I dread the hour when she shall finally awaken. Heaven is
merciful to her in thus keeping her unconscious,” he repeated again and
again. “What can have made the change in Horace Wylie? I should have
supposed him too proud a man to have entered a divorce court, even if
their life had been unpleasant. And I have always believed them to be
congenial and happy. Surely my poor little sister loved him.”

“I am afraid, Mark, there is another woman in the case,” Alice said with
conviction. “Depend upon it, no man could do such a cold-blooded, cruel
act as this unless his affections were enchained by some other charmer
who has usurped his wife’s place in his heart.”

“Hush! she hears you,” Mark whispered, as a faint moan came from the
couch and he saw the blue eyes slowly unclosed to be fixed with painful
directness upon him.

“What is it, dear; can I do anything for you?” he asked, going to her
and stroking her curl-fringed forehead with his hand.

“Where is Tibby,” she murmured.

“Sure enough, where is Tibby? Alice, is it not time for Tibby to be
home? Where did she go?”

“She went over to Nathan’s this morning, and has not yet returned. Shall
I go after her?”

Elinor shook her head and looked with stony, unseeing, fixed eyes at the
farthest corner of the ceiling. How pinched and drawn the white face
looked, that had bloomed so rosily a few hours before.

A moan again escaped her white lips. Alice sighed in sympathy.

“Don’t, Nellie! Think of Robbie. Poor Robbie, he wants to speak to you.”

“Mamma, I love you,” Robbie said, softly patting her cheek with his
little brown palm. “What makes you sick, mamma?”

“Robbie, Robbie, dear, dear Robbie! O God! O God! It cannot be!”

And again her eyes closed and she was still.

“It is better, anything is better than that awful stare,” Mark said,
bowing his head. At last, as evening approached, Tibby was seen coming
slowly along over the gray plain, swinging her hat in her hand and
laughing with Donald, who accompanied her. Alice looked at the flushed
face of the happy girl, so radiant, so hopeful, so roseate, and her
heart sank at the thought of her meeting with the crushed, broken lily
who lay upon the couch behind her. And she slipped quietly out of the
door to meet Tibby and prepare her.

She put up her hand, enjoining quiet, as Tibby swung her hat in
salutation.

“Tibby, dear,” Alice said as the twain came to her side, “Mrs. Wylie has
received bad news, and is quite overcome by it. She asked for you and I
think you may be able to comfort her.”

Tibby’s face blanched a little, and the laughing lips were sobered.

“I will go in at once. Good-by, Mr. Bartram. I’ll leave you to Mrs.
Cramer’s care.” And she flitted away.

“We’re in great trouble, Donald. Mark will explain to you at another
time,” Alice said.

“You have my sympathy, whatever it may be,” the young man replied
gravely. “If I can be a help in any way, command me.”

“Thank you, Donald, we are always sure of that.”

He lifted his hat.

“You may bring Lissa over to-morrow. Perhaps the skein of mystery may be
untangled by that time and more explainable,” she said as he turned
away.

With the coming of Tibby the stony stare of Elinor’s eyes was washed
away by blessed tears, and with her head upon Tibby’s breast she wept
long and silently, while Tibby soothed her with whispered words. Then
after a time the sobs became less frequent, and to the relief of all,
Elinor slept.