A few moments later Donald was at Mark’s door, and the swift-falling
snowflakes were already obscuring the landscape when he rapped with his
riding-whip and met the startled face of Mrs. Cramer.

“Has Miss Waring returned?” he asked anxiously, searching Alice’s
countenance.

“No, and I am becoming worried about her. She would be sure to start
home when she saw the storm coming up.”

“Yes, I am going to try to find her. The wind is rising fast. Can you
lend me a couple of blankets?”

Alice flew to an adjoining room, and quickly returned with a bright
woolen parcel, which Donald strapped to his saddle securely, while a
wild gust of wind swept past him and struggled and tugged with him for
their possession.

“Why are you carrying your rifle?” Alice asked, noting his strange
accoutrement.

“I will tell you,” said Donald, again seating himself firmly in the
saddle. “Have you a gun here?”

“Yes, certainly.”

“And you know how to use it?”

“Most assuredly.”

“Then you must help me to find my way. I want you to fire it every time
you hear the report of my rifle. Do you understand?”

“Yes, Don. Do you think the danger is so great?”

“Yes, we are in for a furious storm. Now remember, answer all my
signals, and—if you should not hear from me for a time, keep firing
every few moments anyway.”

“Yes, Don. Heaven help you to find Tibby and bring her home safely to
us!”

A moment later Donald was lost to view in the whirling, swirling masses
of snow that filled the air, and Alice, taking down the heaviest gun
from the wall, examined it carefully, and loaded it with a charge of
powder.

“What are you doing with that gun, Alice?” asked Mrs. Wylie, who,
hearing the sound of voices, had risen from her couch and now came into
the room.

“I am going to answer Donald’s signals to guide him through the storm.”

Mrs. Wylie’s eyes opened wide with alarm.

“But why has Donald gone out in it?” she questioned, looking from the
window into the impenetrable, snow-filled air.

“To find Tibby, Elinor.”

Mrs. Wylie sank down in a chair and pressed her hands to her side, while
her lips grew white.

“Why—Alice, do you suppose Tibby can be out in this terrible storm? I
have been sleeping and did not realize it was upon us until the gusts
struck the house and I heard you talking with some one—Donald, was it?”

“I hope, Elinor, that Tibby has not started out in this, but if she has
she may lose her way and freeze if some one does not find her. I have
been very uneasy about her for some time.”

“Oh, how dreadful, dreadful!” And as Mrs. Wylie continued to gaze out
into the opaque snow-world about her she began to realize for the first
time what a western blizzard might mean. “Why did I not have sense
enough to keep that child at home?” she moaned. “I shall never forgive
myself if she is lost.”

“We should both of us have seconded Donald’s caution, I’m afraid,”
replied Alice. “I am not so weather-wise as he, yet I should have known
what such a morning in midwinter portended here. Tibby delights in
teasing Donald, and of course would not heed his warning; but she would
have listened to us had we been persistent.”

“I don’t know. I’m afraid I am the one who always listens to her. I
don’t see why she treats Don so,” Mrs. Wylie said.

“Don’t you? I think I do. It is because she cares for him, and will not
acknowledge it, even to herself. But do look at the storm, Elinor. Is it
not terrifying? Where does all this snow come from? The ground is
already heavily sheeted with it. And listen to the wind. How it wails
and shrieks, buffets and pounds. We are fortunate in being safely
housed, Elinor.”