XX
SPIRITS OF THE AIR

“Are you visited by phantoms or by ghosts at midnight, walking?
See you grim and grisley spectres? Do you never hear them talking?
Talking low, in chilling whispers, of the worn heart’s secret sorrows,
Of the lone heart’s hidden treasures, and the hopes it vainly borrows?

“When alone, at evening sitting, in the shadows of the twilight,
See them softly by you flitting—or in dimness of the firelight—
Phantoms of your youthful pleasures, mocking at you now, and scoffing,
Whispering as they brush you, lightly, ‘past the hours of mirth and
laughing.’

“Spectres of the dear departed, who once smiled upon you, brightly;
Of the fair and faithful hearted, whom you love to dream of, nightly.
Other forms from out the shadows walk and grin with horrid grimness,
Mock you with their ceaseless chatter, as the firelight fades in
dimness.

“Then, sometimes you feel the coolness of the west wind softly blowing,
Of the cool sweet wind of summer, fresh from where bright waves are
flowing,
And it carries with it zephyrs, whispers of the happy childhood—
Of the joyous days of girlhood, and the fragrance of the wildwood.

“And you clutch with eager yearning, but to stay them in their fleeting,
Clutch at air and soulless nothing, vain is all your soul’s entreating;
Gone beyond is all the sweetness, carried by the zephyrs lightly,
Borne afar beyond your reaching, by the mocking phantoms, nightly.

“O the year so slowly drifting, with their freight of human sorrow,
Are they very near their ending? Will they end, too, on the morrow?
Ghosts of years and ghosts of pleasures, cease, oh cease, your midnight
stalking,
Fill no more the heart with anguish, by your tireless, soundless
walking.”


Alice Cramer stood by the small window of her home, her fingers
unconsciously thrumming on the pane, while she gazed out into the
shadowing twilight of early spring.

The road was a dark line in the gray landscape and she watched eagerly
for a figure to arise from it into vision. It was the evening that Mark
should come, and she remembered that she had parted from him almost in
anger. She had expected then to see him soon again, in a few weeks at
the furthest, but the weeks had grown into months. There had been
trouble with the Indians on the frontier and Mark was ordered to report
for active duty and sent away a long distance from home. What a long,
dreary winter it had been, even though her mother had been with her.
Alice sighed as she thought of it. Even the mother had gone back to her
Eastern home now, and she was alone.

Ah, she was glad, very glad Mark was coming; but there was a shadow of
fear tinging the brightness of her joy. She had disobeyed him. She
compressed her lips as she thought again of the command he had laid upon
her. Why had he been so bitter and prejudiced in regard to Professor
Russell? Mark was usually so tolerant of others’ beliefs and foibles. It
could not be from the cause the Professor had once insinuated. A hot
flush of shame swept over her as she thought of that dreadful
insinuation. Surely, the man had forgotten himself when he hinted that.
She should never dare repeat his words to Mark. He would shoot him, she
feared. Perhaps Mark was right in his dislike for the man, but she could
not refuse to credit his doctrine. Surely, surely she had proof of
unseen visitants surrounding her. She felt their presence.

And even as she thus thought, a shiver of fear came over her. The air
about her grew chill. In imagination she could see without, in the
gathering darkness, a host of shadowy forms flitting backward and
forward before her, like swarms of tiny insects in the atmosphere. How
they swarmed about her and over her as she grew colder and her breathing
more difficult. Involuntarily she turned her head and glanced backward
over her shoulder. The shadows had deepened in the room. A frightful
figure began to take shape before her excited vision. Her heart beat
loudly and painfully. Her breath came in gasps. A moment, and the shape
began to approach her. She gazed in fascinated terror into the darkness,
not daring to move. Nearer and nearer it came,—ah, God! Alice felt her
limbs sinking beneath her, and dropping to the floor she cowered and
covered her face with her hands.

Oh, the fright and awfulness of that moment! She felt the forms all
about her, shadowing and overpowering her. She heard them in a swarming,
buzzing confusion of sound. Suddenly, out from it all came another
sound, louder and more distinct, but she was too paralyzed to reason.

She heard the sound of heavy footsteps outside. Nearer and nearer they
came. The door opened. Some one approached in the half darkness. There
was a rushing and roaring as of many waters in Alice’s brain, and she
crouched lower and lower and uttered a faint shriek of terror.