Tibby felt the tactless impertinence of her words, and her eyes fell
beneath the gray ones fixed questioningly upon her.

“That’s pretty severe, if you mean it,” Donald replied, speaking with
great deliberation. “Thank you for your frank manner of telling truths,
however. It is good of you. One would rather be hit straight in the
forehead than in the back. Is it George Eliot that says, ‘Truth has
rough flavors if we bite it through’?”

“Why don’t you get angry with me?” Tibby tapped the floor impatiently
with the toe of her boot.

“Because you are trying to make me so, and besides, it isn’t my year to
be angry,” he said with a drawl, his gray eyes still upon her.

“O, you insufferable prig!” exclaimed the girl desperately. “As if the
man ever lived who didn’t get angry. Tell me, were you never angry?”

“Yes, I think so—once,” he drawled. “Yes, now I reflect upon the matter,
I remember I was once, but it wasn’t a pleasant experience. I’d rather
not repeat it, even to please you, Miss Tibby.”

The girl turned from him petulantly.

“I think it would please me very much,” she said. “Such even tempers are
abominable. Good-by!” And Tibby backed out of the room, waving her hand
dramatically toward him. “Dryden tells us to ‘Beware the fury of a
patient man,’ and I will run before your wrath breaks forth.”

“Is Tibby more perverse than usual this morning?” Alice asked as Donald
buttoned up his coat preparatory to departure.

“Yes, in tempting Providence by riding to the fort this morning. If I am
not very much mistaken, we are to have a small blizzard before night.”

“O! I hope not,” sighed Mrs. Wylie. “I have never experienced one, but
Alice has been telling me of blizzards, and of people perishing in them
not far from their own doors. I cannot realize such a thing possible.”

“Wait until you’ve seen one,” said Donald soberly. He shook his head as
he stepped out of doors. “Tell that wilful girl to take no chances,” he
said, turning back. “There’s surely a storm coming. She will not listen
to me.”

“Don’t forget, Mrs. Cramer, to take my cake from the oven in fifteen
minutes,” Tibby said a little later, entering the room.

“Why do you go when there is a storm coming?” inquired Mrs. Wylie.

“Who says there is a storm coming? No one but Donald, and he is a
croaker. I’m not afraid. Tempest will be a match for any storm that ever
blew.” And a few moments afterwards Tibby tripped gaily down the path to
the horse’s stable, her riding-skirt thrown over her arm, and her whole
figure alert with joyous anticipation. As she emerged upon the back of
her favorite horse and swept past the pedestrian, Donald, she called out
saucily:

“Isn’t a Tempest more in evidence to-day than a blizzard, Mr. Bartram?”

Donald waved his hand at her, and she was gone, her low, rich laugh
coming back to him in the moist air.

Before Donald reached Nathan’s the sky had begun to be flecked with
clouds, light and fleecy, that seemed to speed swiftly high in the air.
Then he felt drops of rain that seemed to come out of the somewhere. At
intervals the sun would shine brightly and warm. As the hours wore away
Donald’s anxiety increased.

Lissa looked out at three o’clock, to see the sky overcast with clouds,
and large scattering flakes of snow floating about in the chill air. At
the same moment Donald rode up from the stables on the back of his
favorite horse, Duke, a large, powerful animal, of great intelligence
and endurance.

“I am going over to Mark’s, Lissa,” he cried, “to see if Tibby has
returned. Within a half hour it will be impossible to see a rod ahead of
one. If that wilful girl should attempt to start back in the face of the
storm, as she is almost sure to do, she can never get home alone. Don’t
go out of doors yourself. I’ve made all secure at the stables. If Tibby
has returned I shall be back in a few moments. If not, I shall go to
meet her.”

Lissa’s face paled.

“I know the danger, Donald. I hope, oh, I hope you’ll find her all right
at Mark’s!”

Donald was already far down the road, when the wind, suddenly veering,
swept the house with such a shock Lissa was glad to close the door and
draw up to the great stove for warmth.