“My dear, we are told to seek for the _truth_. And why, then, is it not
well? Surely, if the presence of my children was dear to me on earth, it
is dear to me now.”

“Yes, if you were in heaven with them; but I cannot believe such
doubtful converse as this, gotten through mediumistic agency, can be
well for any one.”

“I can see no possible harm in it,” returned Mrs. Lucien, with an air of
conviction. “Even Christ materialized after his crucifixion.”

“But He didn’t have a cabinet and a medium to assist Him,” replied Mrs.
Wylie, with some asperity. “There is really so much that is despicable
and demoralizing connected with the history of this belief that I
confess I have little patience with the followers of it.”

“My dear, wrong has been done in all sects and societies. Any new belief
is apt to draw to itself many who are no honor to it.”

“But think of all this buffoonery of materialization in a cabinet, and
table-rappings, and tying with cords, and so forth. I cannot believe in
it. Hermann can surpass it by his magic.”

“Did not Moses and Elijah materialize?”

“Not in a cabinet. Besides, the days of miracles are passed.”

“I cannot think so,” said Mrs. Lucien, clasping her hands and looking
upward with a rapturous glance.

“Well,” said Mrs. Wylie, rising, “I am sorry you are so much interested
in the subject. I have never seen anything but sorrow come of it.”

“Is there not sorrow everywhere, Mrs. Wylie? This day is, I think,
symbolical of life, or of many lives.” She threw open a window, and the
two stepped out upon a small balcony above the street.

A heavy calm was over and about all nature. The whistle of the oncoming
train, the rattle of the car over the pavement was louder and more
discordant than on brighter, sunnier days. Even the voices of the people
on the street grew distinct and harsh, as the air, damp with the
approaching storm, bore their words with clearness to the twain above
them.

Little gusts of wind caught up the dust from the trampled pavement, and
whisked it over, in tyrannous derision, and a dusky, yellow hue shone
upon the faces of humanity. The swinging signs before the shop creaked
and groaned ominously, and the flag upon the tall pole in the park shook
out its folds, then wound them about the halyards and hung limp and
spiritless.

The faint muttering of a cloud skirting the horizon was at times heard,
when the sound of busy humanity was for a moment hushed.

Mrs. Lucien stood, leaning over the railing of the veranda, her pale
cheek resting in the soft upturned palm of her hand, and her eyes fixed
on the moving panorama before her.

“I feel as though listening to the voice of God coming from yonder
storm-cloud,” she said. “How responsive is all nature to the ominous
warning there. Even the trees seem to be holding their breaths and
waiting for the presence to pass by. Notice how different is the quiver
of the leaflets now from their usual merry, rollicking dance in the wind
and sunshine at other times.”

“I suppose the atmosphere is more dense and heavy,” said Mrs. Wylie,
determined not to be betrayed into sentimentality.

“I like to think they understand the portent of the thunder and are
afraid,” replied the other. “They are saying their prayers now, and
asking that they may survive the blows and buffeting of the coming
tempest. Hear the sparrows chirp to call their families together. To me
there is no time so grand, so inspiring as this.”

“But if you were in the West, where cyclones are common, what would you
feel?” asked the practical Mrs. Wylie.

“Fear, terror, and trembling like the leaves, no doubt,” replied Mrs.
Lucien. “The anger and fury expressed in a tornado must be dreadful. I
shudder at the thought of it. But after the wind comes a still small
voice. Ah, how can people who live and breathe the beneficent air of
heaven, who witness the wonderful phenomena of nature, say or believe
there is no grand, marvelous unity controlling it all? Truly, it _is_
the fool who sayeth in his heart, there is no God.

“We can feel His wonderful love and care in the beautiful earth and
flowers about us, can perceive His righteous law in the retributive
justice of all nature, and His might and omnipotence in the
thunder-storm and cyclone. Ah, it is a wonderful thing to live, to know
that in a little while we shall have crossed to the other side, beyond
time and eternity. And then we may see and know the Law-giver, this
Almighty One, who carries worlds in his hands, yet deigns to note a
sparrow’s fall.”