“The world’s going to bed,” she whispered. “It always says its prayers
first—wonderful prayers full of the fragrance of roses and the sough of
wind just touching the pines, and the far, far song of birds. You have
to listen—oh, so still!—before you can hear them. The world is sad
because the lovely day is dead and because life is so short and so
filled with loss, and it’s just a wee bit afraid of the darkness. So God
lights up millions of candles in His sky as a sign that He’s up there
and all’s well with the universe.”

Larry had another Ruth to add to his list of portraits of her. It was
amazing how many women were wrapped up in her slim young body, not to
mention the Ruth that was a naughty child and the one that was all eager
boy. He had known her in the course of a morning grave and gay,
whimsical and coquettish, sulky and passionate. She was given to
generous impulses and unjust resentments. At times her soul danced on
the hilltops of life, and again she beat with her fists indignantly at
the bars that prisoned her. Of late he had more than once surprised her
with the traces of tears on her face.

He knew that all was not well between her and Rowan, but he did not know
what was amiss. Only Mrs. Flanders guessed that, and for once she kept
her own counsel.

Larry slipped his big brown hand over her little one.

“But you’re not happy just the same,” he told her.

He was one of those men whose attitude toward a young and attractive
woman is always that of the lover potential or actual. He was never
quite satisfied until the talk became personal and intimate, until he
had established an individual relationship with any woman who interested
him.

Ruth nodded agreement.

She let her hand lie in his. Since her break with Rowan she was often
the victim of moods when she craved a sympathy such as Larry offered,
one that took her trouble for granted without discussing it. There were
other times when her spirit flared into rebellion, when she was eager to
punish her husband’s faithlessness by letting Silcott make veiled love
to her with only a pretense of disapproval.

“Why don’t you chuck it all overboard and make a new start?” he asked
her abruptly.

She looked at him, a little startled. He had never before made so direct
a reference to her situation.

“I don’t care to talk about that.”

“But you’ll have to talk about it some time. You can’t go on like this
for ever, and—you know I love you, that I’d do anything in the world
for you.”

“I know you talk a lot of foolishness, Larry,” she retorted sharply. “I
may be a goose, but I’m not silly enough to take you seriously all the
time. Let’s go back to the house.”

“I don’t see why you can’t take me seriously,” he said sulkily.

“Because you’re only a boy. You think you want the moon, but you don’t;
at least the only reason you want it is because it’s in somebody else’s
yard.”

“It doesn’t need to stay there always, does it?”

“That isn’t a matter for you and me to discuss,” she flashed at him with
spirit. “Whenever I need your advice I’ll ask for it, my friend.”

She led the way to the house, her slender limbs moving rhythmically with
light grace. Larry walked beside her sullenly. What was the matter with
her to-night? Last week she had almost let him kiss her. If she had held
him back, still it had been with the promise in her manner that next
time he might be more successful. But now she had pushed him back into
the position of a friend rather than a lover.

Larry had no intention of being her friend. It was not in his horoscope
to be merely a friend to any charming woman. Moreover, he was as much in
love with Ruth as he could be with anybody except himself.

Just before they reached the porch she asked him a question: “When will
they be through with the round-up?”

“In two or three days. Why?”

“I just wondered.”

Her eyes evaded his. His annoyance flashed suddenly into words.

“If it’s Rowan you want, why don’t you go back to him like a good little
girl and say you’re sorry? I expect he would forgive you.”