“Y-yes. But I don’t want to talk about that now. They’re going to take
you away from me. We’ve only got a few minutes. Oh, Rowan, I don’t see
how I’m going to let you go!”

His heart overflowed with tenderness and pride. Every one of her broken
little endearments filled him with joy. Her dear sweetness was balm to
his wounded soul.

“Let me tell you this, Ruth. I’m happier to-night than I’ve been for a
long time. They can’t separate us if we keep each other in our hearts. I
thought I’d lost you. I’ve been through hell because of it, my dear.”

“You do—love me,” she murmured.

He did not try to tell her in words how much. His reassurance was in the
lovers’ language of eyes and lips and the soft touch of hands.

They came again to the less perfect medium of words, and she told him of
her visits to Yerby and Falkner.

“I knew all the time you couldn’t have done what Mr. Haight said you
did; ’way down deep in my heart I knew it. But I wanted to hold a grudge
against you because you didn’t confide in me. I wanted to think bad
things about you, and yet they made me so dreadfully unhappy, Rowan. And
all the time you were sacrificing yourself for the man who brought you
into the trouble. I might have known it.”

He shook his head. “No, honey. I wasn’t doing any more than I had to do.
We were all partners in the raid. What one did all did. I’ve had plenty
of time to think it out, and I know that I’m just as guilty as Falkner.
We ought never to have ridden on the raid. If I had set myself against
it, the others would have given it up. But I led them. I’m responsible
for what happened. So I couldn’t throw Falkner down just because he was
the instrument. That wouldn’t have been square.”

“I don’t agree with you at all. If he had done as you said there
wouldn’t have been any lives lost. They’ve no right to hold you for it,
and I’m going to begin working right away to get you out. I went to
school with the governor’s wife, you know. They have just been
married—oh, scarcely a year. He’s a lot older than she is and very much
in love with her, Louise says. So she’ll make him give you a pardon.”

Rowan smiled. “I’m afraid it isn’t going to be so easy as that, dear.
The governor couldn’t pardon me on account of public opinion even if he
wanted to do it. I know him. He’s a good fellow. But the Bald Knob raid
has made too big a stir for him to interfere now.”

“He’s got to. I’ll show you. I want you home.” She broke down and sought
again the sanctuary of his shoulder.

While she cried he petted her.

After a time she began to talk in whispered fragments.

“I’m going to need you so much. I can’t stand it, Rowan, to have you
away from me now. I want my man. I want you—oh, I want you so badly! It
isn’t fair. It isn’t right—now.”

Something in her voice startled him. He took her by the shoulders and
held her gently from him while he looked into her eyes.

“You mean——”

She broke from his hands and clung to him. He knew her secret now. His
heart beat fast as he held her in his strong arms. Joy, exultation,
humility, fear, infinite tenderness—he tasted them all. But the emotion
that remained was despair.

He had forfeited his right to protect and cherish her in her hour of
need. She must go through the dark valley of the shadow alone, while he
was shut up away from her. What kind of a husband had he been ever to
let himself be put in such a position? All his strength and capacity
would go for nothing. Because of his folly, her inexperience, her
fragile youth would have to face the world unprotected, and even these
were to be handicapped by the new life on the way. With what generous
faith had she given herself into his keeping, and how poorly had he
requited her! That very night he must take the journey at the end of
which he was to be buried alive, must turn his back on her and leave her
to make the fight alone.

He groaned. Ruth heard him murmur, “My love! My precious lamb!” She read
the burning misery in his eyes. Womanlike, she flew to comfort him.

“I’m glad—oh, you don’t know how glad I am—now that we are _tillicums_
again! I wouldn’t have it any other way, Rowan. If it weren’t for what’s
going to happen—I couldn’t stand it to wait for you. Don’t you see?
I’ll have a pledge of you with me all the time. When I’m loving it, I’ll
be loving you.”

What she said was true. There had been forged a bond irrevocable between
them. He recognized it with a lifted heart. The cross-current of fate
that was snatching him from her must at last yield to the sweep of the
tide that would bring them together.