“Joe is certainly a bad actor, but it would be some job to drive him
away. He hasn’t got sense enough to realize what is going to happen to
him. If Falkner ever gets him at the wrong end of a gun——” He left his
sentence unfinished. The imagination could supply the rest.

“They say Tait has driven his sheep across the dead line again.” Mrs.
Flanders put her statement as if it were a question.

Larry, recalling a warning he had been given, became suddenly discreet.
“Do they?”

“Will the Hill Creek cattlemen stand for it?”

There was a sullen, mulish look on his face that suggested he knew more
than he intended to tell. “Maybe they will. Maybe they won’t.”

Business called the Mistress of Elkhorn Lodge into the house.

Ruth, with a slant of dark eyes toward her guest, asked him a question:
“Do you call this two weeks?”

“I call it a month, reckoning by my feelings.”

She scoffed. “It’s a pity about your feelings. I told you not to come
again for two weeks.”

“I thought as I happened to be passing——”

“On your way to nowhere.”

“—that I’d drop in and say ‘_Buenas tardes_.’”

“Good of you, I’m sure.”

He settled himself comfortably on the porch against a pillar. “I want to
ask your advice. I’m just a plain cow-puncher and you’re a wise young
lady from a city. So you can tell me all about it. I’m getting old and
lonesome, and my mind has been running on a girl a heap.”

Her glance took in the slim, wiry youth at her feet. She smiled. “You’d
better ask Mrs. Flanders. I’m too young to advise you.”

“No. You’re just the right age. I’ll tell you about her. There never was
anybody prettier—not in Wyoming. She’s fresh and sweet, like those wild
roses we picked in Bear Creek Cañon. Her eyes are kind o’ rippled by a
laugh ’way down deep in them, then sometimes they are dark and still
and—sort of tender. She has the kindest heart in the world—and the
cruelest. I wouldn’t want a better partner, though she’s as wild as an
unbroken bronc sometimes. You never can tell when she’s going to bolt.”

There was a faint flush of pink in her cheeks, but her eyes danced. “You
don’t make her sound like a really _nice_ girl.”

“Oh, she’s nice enough, when she isn’t a little divvle. The trouble is
she isn’t foot-loose.”

“Of course she is tremendously in love with you.”

“She likes me a heap better than she pretends.”

“I’m sure she would adore you if she knew how modest you are,” Ruth
answered with amiable malice.

Silcott’s gaze absorbed her dainty sweetness. He spoke with an emphasis
of the cattleman’s drawl.

“I’d like right well to take her up on my hawss and ride away with her
like that Lochinvar fellow did in the poetry book y’u lent me onct—the
one that busted up the wedding of the laggard guy and went a-fannin’ off
with his gyurl behind him, whilst the no’count bridegroom and her paw
hollered ‘Help!’”

“Lochinvar. Oh, he’s out of date.”

“Maybe so. But it’s a great thing to know when to butt in.” He watched
her covertly as he spoke.

“And when not to,” added Ruth, with the insolent little tilt of her chin
that made men want to demonstrate. “Come on. Let’s go over to the mesa
and look at the desert in the moonlight.”

Beneath the stars this land of splintered peaks and ragged escarpments
always took on a glory denied to it by day. The obscuration of detail,
the vagueness of outline, lent magic to the hills. Below, the valley
swam in a sheen of gleaming silver.

Ruth drew a deep breath of sensuous delight and lifted her face to the
star-strewn sky. Her companion watched her, his eyes shining. She was
standing lance straight, everything forgotten but the beauty of the
night. In the air was a faint, murmurous stir of desert denizens.