As for Ruth her blood began to beat faster with excitement. She was
trying an experiment. If it proved a failure she knew she would be very
greatly disappointed. Just now it seemed to her that she had set the
whole happiness of her life at stake. For if Rowan did not look at it as
she did, if his joy in it did not equal her hopes, they would fail by
just so much of that unity of mind for which she prayed.

They had left Rawlins before noon. It was well into the middle of the
afternoon before the driver of the car stopped at a little two-store
village deep in the hills.

“We get out here,” Ruth told her husband.

She settled with the owner of the car, and the man started back to
Rawlins. Opposite the store where they had stopped was a corral. Ruth
led the way to it. Three horses were eating hay from a rack.

Rowan looked at them, then at Ruth. He had recognized two of the
animals, and the third one showed on the flank the Circle Diamond brand.

“Am I to ask questions yet?” McCoy wanted to know.

“If you like,” she smiled.

“Are we to ride home on the pinto and old Duke?”

“Yes.”

“And the sorrel?”

“For a pack horse.”

“You have supplies and a tent?”

“Jennings brought them.”

He took a deep breath of delight. For three days and nights they would
be alone, buried together in the eternal hills. Such a home-coming as
this had been beyond his dreams.

“Are you—glad?” she asked, and her voice was tremulous.

“Glad!” He spoke a little roughly to hide his deep feeling. “If I could
only let you know how I feel! If I could!”

Her heart jumped with a sudden gladness. Rowan did not want to meet his
friends yet. He wanted to be alone with her and the baby. This was to
be, then, their true honeymoon, the seal of their love for each other.

Rowan saddled the horses and packed the third animal, throwing the
diamond hitch expertly. His wife watched him work. It was a joy to see
how the vigour of his spirit found expression in the economy of his
movements, in the certainty of his fingers, in the easy power of the
shoulders muscled so beautifully where the bronzed neck sloped into
them.

Presently they were moving into the bigger hills. They saw no more sage
chickens or antelope, but as they wound deeper into the mountains his
keen eye detected signs of life that escaped her observation. He made
her get down once to look at the trail of an elk.

“We’ve been following his trail from that pine back there,” McCoy told
her. “He’s a big fellow, and he was on his way down to water. But he got
scared right here, I expect. Maybe he heard us coming, or maybe he
smelled a bear. Anyhow, he plunged right into the aspens without waiting
to say good-bye.”

“How do you know all that? I believe you’re spoofing, as one of our
riders, an Englishman, sometimes tells me when I joke him.”

“He’s left signposts all along the way. There’s one track. See? And
there’s another. They’re big tracks and they are far apart. The spread
of his forefeet shows that he’s a bull. Now notice where he broke the
brush here and how trampled down the young aspens are. His horn ripped
the bark clear off this tree. See how far from the ground it is. That
shows his height.”

“Yes, but how do you know he was frightened?”

“He dived into the brush mighty reckless. Why didn’t he wait and turn
off there by the big rock where the going would be easy? I reckon he
thought he hadn’t time.”

They camped far up beside a mountain lake. He pitched tent in a
beautiful grove of wide-spaced pines through which a brook sang its way
down to the lake. While he unpacked and made preparations for supper
Ruth took the rod to try her luck. When she returned half an hour later
the tent was pegged down, young pine boughs cut and spread for a bed,
and the fire going for their meal. Rowan had the water on to boil for
coffee, and slices of bacon in the frying pan ready to set upon the
rocks that hedged in his coals.