“Oh, well! We got to be reasonable—all of us. Now here’s my
proposition: Let me talk with the boys and their lawyers. If I could get
them to plead guilty it would save a heap of trouble all around.”

Haight had looked at the matter from this angle before. He nodded. “All
right. See what you can do, Mr. Roswell. If they will save us the
expense of trying them, I think I can arrange for life imprisonment.”

“For all of them?” demanded the cattleman shrewdly.

“For all the rest of them.”

“How about Rowan?”

“He’s not included. We’ve got to make an example of him. He led the
raid.”

Roswell fought it out with the lawyer for an hour, but on this point
Haight stood firm. McCoy had to pay the extreme penalty for his crime.
That was not even open to argument.

The old cattleman called at once upon the leading lawyer for the
defense, and with him visited the cell of Yerby. The Texan was greatly
depressed at the issue of the trial. He could not get over his
bitterness at the part Silcott had played.

“I reckon he’s up at the ho-tel eating fried chicken and watermelon.
Well, he’s welcome. I wouldn’t swap places with him. Neither would Mac.
We all had our chance to do like he done.”

“No, Silcott’s still in jail. He asked Matson to keep him there till the
trials are over and he can light out. I expect he don’t like to trust
himself outside. Some of the boys are a mite vexed at him.” Roswell came
abruptly to the object of his call. “Sam, we got to face facts. Haight
has the goods on you boys. He’ll sure convict you.”

“Looks like,” agreed the Texan dejectedly.

“We’ll have to fix up a compromise. If you’ll all plead guilty Haight is
willing to call it life imprisonment.”

“What do the other boys say?”

“They are willing, I reckon, to take the best terms they can get.”

“I’d as lief be dead as locked up in jail for the rest of my life.”

“We’ll get you out on parole in two or three years. The worst of it is
that Mac ain’t included in the arrangement. Haight swears he has got to
hang.” Eyes narrowed to slits, Roswell watched the Texan while he fired
his next shot. “Mac was the leader. There wouldn’t ’a’ been any killing
except for him. He’s the responsible party. So Haight says that——”

“Got it all figured out, have you? Mac did the killing. Mac was to
blame. I’ll tell you this: If Mac had had his way there wouldn’t have
been any killing. Just because he shuts his mouth and stands the
gaff—— Dog-gone it, you and Haight can take yore compromise plumb to
hell!” decided the Texan, his anger rising.

Roswell gave a low whoop and fell upon him. “That’s the way to talk,
old-timer. We’ve got Haight on the hip. The county’s busted high and
dry. Folks are beginning to holler already about the expense of the
trials. If Haight were to come up for reëlection along with a special
tax levy to pay for the trials the dear pee-pul wouldn’t do a thing to
him. He’s ready to talk turkey. If you lads will stand pat, it’s an even
bet that he’ll have to crawfish about Mac.”

“I ’low we’ll stay hitched—all of us that haven’t a big yellow streak
up our backs. Why-for should we let Mac get the worst of the deal? You
go tell Haight he can’t stack the cards that-a-way.”

Rogers, coming up for trial next day, was anxious to get the matter
settled. But he, too, declined the terms.

“I’ll take my chance before a jury unless Haight agrees to lump Mac in
with the rest of us. Mac would see Haight in blazes before he would
agree to any such raw deal if he were in my place. You can let Mr.
Prosecuting Attorney start the fireworks soon as he’s a mind to. I’m
willing to go as far as I can. I reckon all the boys are. But I’m too
old and tough and stubborn to whine out of it like Larry Silcott. What’s
sauce for the goose is sauce for the gander. When I see Mac’s name at
the head of the list, I’ll sign a compromise.”

Cole and Falkner in turn were visited. The former refused flatly to
consider any arrangement which did not include McCoy.

In the interest of psychology or to satisfy his own curiosity Roswell
ventured on debatable ground with Falkner.

“Course you don’t owe Mac anything. He led you into this trouble. The
whole thing is his fault. Silcott as good as admitted that Rowan did the
actual killing himself. Naturally you would be sore on him. Now by
accepting Haight’s proposition Mac will be hanged and you other
lads——”