XII


ACROSS THE DEAD LINE

NOWHERE outside of Cattleland would such a scene have been possible. The
air was filled with the fine dust of milling cattle, with the sound of
bawling cows and blatting calves. Hundreds of them, rounded up on the
Flat Tops and driven down Eagle Creek, were huddled in a draw fenced by
a score of lean brown horsemen.

Now and again one of the leggy hill steers made a dash for freedom. The
nearest puncher wheeled his horse as on a half dollar, gave chase, and
headed the animal back into the herd. Three of the old stockmen rode in
and out among the packed cattle, deciding on the ownership of stray
calves. These were cut out, roped, and branded on the spot.

Everybody was busy, everybody cheerful. These riders had for weeks been
in the saddle eighteen hours out of the twenty-four. They were grimy
with dust, hollow-eyed from want of sleep. But every chap-clad,
sun-baked horseman was hard as nails and tough as leather. To feel the
press of a saddle under his knees in all this clamour and confusion was
worth a month of ordinary life to a cow-puncher.

McCoy, since he was boss of the round-up, was chief of the board of
arbiters. An outsider would have been hopelessly at a loss to decide
what cow was the mother of each lost and bewildered calf. But these
experts guessed right ninety-nine times out of a hundred.

“Goes with the big bald-faced cow—D Bar Lazy R brand,” was the verdict
of Rowan as to one roan stray.

“You done said it, Mac!” agreed Sam Yerby, chewing his quid of tobacco
lazily.

The third judge, Brad Rogers, of the Circle B R, nodded his head. Duncan
King, whose father owned a ranch near the headwaters of Hill Creek, cut
out the bawling little maverick for the branders.

While the outfit was at supper after the day’s work a man rode up to the
chuck wagon and fell into the easy, negligent attitude of the range
rider at rest.

“Hello, Larry! Come and get it,” shouted the cook, waving a beefsteak on
the prongs of a long fork.

Silcott slid from the saddle and joined the circle. He found a seat
beside McCoy.

“I want to see you alone, Mac,” he said in a low voice.

Rowan nodded, paid no more attention to him, and joined again in the
general conversation. But presently he got up and strolled toward the
remuda.

Larry casually joined him.

“Tait has been across the dead line for two days, Mac. He’s travelling
straight for the Circle Diamond with fifteen hundred sheep. About a
third of them belong to Gilroy. Joe has two herders with him.”

“Where are they camped to-night?”

“At the foot of Bald Knob.”

“Is Gilroy with them?”

“No. He was this morning, but he telephoned his wife from Westcliff that
he would be home to-night.”

The boss of the round-up looked away at the purple hills, his
close-gripped jaw clamped tight, his eyes narrowed almost to slits.

“Drift back to the wagon, Larry, and tell Yerby and Rogers to drop out
of the crowd and meet me here quietly.”

“Sure.” The younger man hung in the wind. “What are you going to do,
Mac?”

“What would you do?”

Silcott broke into a sudden angry oath. “Do? I’d meet Joe Tait halfway.
I’d show him whether he can spoil the range for us at his own sweet
will. He wants war. By all that’s holy, I’d carry it right into his
camp!”

Rowan did not deny to himself the seriousness of the issue as he waited
for the coming of the two men. He faced the facts squarely, as he always
did. Tait had again declared war. To let the man have his own way meant
ruin to the cattle interests on the Fryingpan. For if one sheepman were
permitted to invade the range, dozens of others would drive across into
the forbidden territory. The big, fearless bully had called for a
show-down. Let him win now, and it would be a question of months only
until McCoy and his neighbours were sold out at a sheriff’s sale.