“Don’t know. Not for a week or two, anyhow. You in a hurry to get him
back to that hell where he came from, Sheriff?” bristled the old doctor.

“I’m not responsible for the pen, Doc,” answered Matson evenly. “And by
all accounts I reckon Hal Falkner makes his own hell there. But I’m
responsible for turning him over to the warden. If I could get him down
to Wagon Wheel——”

“Well, you can’t!” snapped Irwin. “He’ll stay right here till I think it
safe to move him. It’s my say-so, Aleck.”

“Sure. And while he’s at the Circle Diamond I’ll leave a couple of men
to help nurse him. He might hurt himself trying to move before he’s
really fit to travel,” the sheriff announced with a grim little smile.

Ruth was head nurse herself. For years she had held a bitter resentment
against Falkner, but it could not stand against the thing that had
happened. Put to the acid test, the man had sacrificed his chances of
escape to save her and the baby. Alone, he could have reached the Yerby
ranch and gone through one of the passes before Matson had closed it.
With her and the baby as encumbrances he had not dared try the deeper
snow of the upper hills. Because of his choice he lay in Rowan’s room,
wounded, condemned to a return to Rawlins.

Never in his rough and turbulent life had the man been treated with such
gentle consideration. The clean linen and dainty food were external
effects of an atmosphere wholly alien to his experience. Here were
kindness and friendly smiles and an unimaginable tenderness. All three
of the women were good to him in their own way, but it was for Ruth that
his hungry eyes watched the door. She brought the baby with her one day,
after the fever had left him, and set the youngster on the bed, where
the invalid could watch him play.

Falkner did not talk much. He lay quiet for hours, scarce moving, unless
little Rowan was in the room. Ruth, coming in silently one afternoon,
caught the brooding despair in his eyes.

He turned to her gently. “What makes you so good to me? You know you
hate me.”

Her frank, friendly smile denied the charge. “No, I don’t hate you at
all. I did, but I don’t now.”

“I’m keeping Rowan away from you. It was my fault he went there in the
first place.”

“Yes, but you saved Baby’s life—and mine, too. If you had looked out
only for yourself, you wouldn’t be lying here wounded, and perhaps you
would have got away.” She flashed deep, tender eyes on him. “I’ll tell
you a secret, Mr. Falkner. You’re not half so bad as you think you are.
Can’t I see how you love Baby and how fond he is of you? You’re just
like the rest of us, but you haven’t had a fair chance. So we’re going
to be good to you while we can, and after you come back from prison
we’re going to be friends.”

The ice that had gathered at his heart for years was melting fast. He
turned his face to the wall and lay still there till dusk. Perhaps it
was then that he fought out the final battle of his fight with himself.

When Mrs. Stovall came in with his supper he told her hoarsely that he
wanted to see Matson at once on important business.

The sheriff drove his car in the moonlight out from Wagon Wheel. Ruth
took him in to see Falkner.

“Send for Jennings and Mrs. Stovall. She’s a notary, ain’t she?” said
the convalescent.

Ruth’s heart beat fast. “Yes. She was one when she was postmistress. Her
term hasn’t run out yet.”

“All right. Get her. I want to make a sworn statement before witnesses.”

Matson took down the statement as Falkner dictated:

I want to tell some facts about the Bald Knob sheep raid that
did not come out at the trial of Rowan McCoy. When the party was
made up to ride on that raid I wasn’t included. They left me out
because I had a grudge at Tait. But I horned in. I followed the
boys for miles, and insisted on going along. McCoy objected. He
said the party was going to drive off the sheep and not to do
any killing. I promised to take orders from him. He laid out a
plan by which we could surprise the camp without bloodshed, and
made it plain there was to be no shooting. Afterward he went
over it all very carefully again, and we agreed not to shoot.

I lost my head when we was crawling up on the camp and shot at
the wagon. That was the first shot fired. Tait came out and
began shooting at us. Two or three of us were shooting. I don’t
know who killed him. Gilroy ran out of the wagon to escape.
McCoy hollered to stop shooting, and ran forward. I must have
been crazy. I shot and killed Gilroy.