From the teletypes of Worldwide Press Service:

UNITED STATES COAST GUARD RADIO TODAY REPORTED A DISTRESS SIGNAL
FROM SCHOONER BUCCANEER OFF COAST OF BAJA CALIFORNIA STOP BUCCANEER
ATTACKED BY QUOTE ALIEN SPACECRAFT ENDQUOTE STOP USE WITH DISCRETION
COMMA BUCCANEER OWNED BY DUSTY BRITTON OF MARTIN GRAMER STUDIOS STOP

An excerpt from the daily column of Garry Granger:

"There is something in the wind that smells like a publicity stunt.
Dusty Britton, our Space Patrol type Sir Galahad supposedly took
off for the Venus jaunt some three weeks ago, but has succeeded in
sending a distress signal from somewhere off the coast of Southern
California. Apparently The Space Patrol is about to meet up with
Moby Dick, or possibly it will be "Ten Thousand Leagues Under The
Sea" starring Dusty Britton. We would like to know two things: one
is whether our intrepid hero actually risked his million dollar
neck in a rocket or not, and the second thing is how much
hanky-panky the Coast Guard is going to stand for. Some things
should be kept sacred. We are not very religious here at the
office; but we do believe in the Brotherhood of Man, and somehow
we resent bitterly the use of distress signals as a means of
getting publicity."

Excerpt from a press release from Martin Gramer Productions, Inc.:

"Now it can be admitted! Dusty Britton has combined fact with
fantasy! No longer a mere actor, Dusty Britton was called from the
space rocket just a few minutes before take-off time to investigate
a secret report of space operations off the coast of Baja
California. If Dusty Britton reported an attack, it stands to
reason that the secrecy that surrounded the original report is no
longer necessary and Dusty Britton's presence on earth instead of
in the space rocket can be disclosed. We await more detailed
information as to the real nature of--"

From a press-conference held at Arlington, Virginia:

SIGNAL FALSE! SAYS F.C.C.!

"Radar Stations report that no sign of space operations by any
agency other than the Venus Rocket have been observed. Even the
early warning screen operating along the coast of California and
Lower California has nothing to report. The signal of distress is
obviously false, and Dusty Britton will be asked to show just
cause for emitting such a report."

A statement from the United States Coast Guard:

"Search and rescue squadrons of the Coast Guard were in flight
above the schooner Buccaneer within an hour after the interrupted
distress signal from Dusty Britton. The schooner appeared to be in
excellent condition and was making its way back towards land when
sighted. Radio challenges were ignored but upon flying low, Dusty
Britton and an unknown woman were seen waving from the deck. There
seemed to be no signs of distress, but a Coast Guard cutter is
speeding to the ship and is expected to make contact in the next
few hours."

Excerpt from the column of Garry Granger:

"What actor, long noted for his derring-do and his exemplary
behaviour has been in unchaperoned company with a nubile young
female in romantic surroundings? In our youth, heroes were only
permitted to kiss their horses. We applaud the approach to reality,
but then we are no longer a youth."

From the teletypes of _The Worldwide Press_:

"Dusty Britton today arrived in port, bearing a tale of a Galactic
Civilization called Marandis. This Galactic Government it seems,
intends to move the Earth to another sun because our position
interferes with their program of running Galactic Highways back and
forth across the trackless wastes of space. Moving Earth is a simple
process, according to Dusty Britton. A mere matter of barytrine
fields, machinus forces, phanoband carriers, and a general
abandonment of the theory of general relativity.

"From the viewpoint of the scientists interviewed following this
claim, Dusty Britton may or may not have been reading one of his
own scripts. Knowing Dusty Britton of old, we are inclined to call
this one: _Manuscript Found In A Bottle_ with a deep nod at Edgar
Allen Poe for the use of his title.

"Dr. Foster of the Wellmann Observatory suggested that enough of
Dusty Britton's story was logical to make it sound good. A race
traversing the galaxy at hundreds of light-years per hour would
find variable stars helpful if used as beacons. But Dr. Foster
said that Britton's story was illogically incomplete. If this
outfit has the machinery necessary to move a planet, why not move
the stars themselves and create a straightaway passage from one
end to the other without curves in the course?"