XXIII


RUTH WHISPERS A SECRET

ACKERMAN followed Rowan into the sheriff’s office. Matson looked up from
the desk where he was working.

“All right, Steve. You needn’t wait.”

When he had signed his name to the letter he was writing, Matson turned
to his prisoner.

“We’re going to start on the eleven-thirty, Mac. Your wife is down at
the house with Mrs. Matson. She wants to say good-bye there instead of
at the depot. I’ve got considerable business to clean up before train
time, so I’ll stay on the job. Be back here in an hour.”

“You mean that I’m to go there alone?”

“Why not? I’ll ask you to go through the alleys if you don’t mind. I
don’t want the other boys to feel that I’m playing favourites.”

“I’ll not forget this, Aleck.”

“Sho! You never threw a man down in your life, Mac. I don’t reckon
you’re going to begin now. Hit the dust. I’m busy.”

Rowan crossed the square to a street darkened by shade trees, and
followed it to the alley. Down this he passed between board fences. He
took his hat off and lifted his face to the star-strewn sky. It would be
many years before he walked again a free man beneath the Milky Way.
Society was putting him behind bars because he had broken its laws. He
did not dispute the justice of its decision. His punishment was fair
enough. When he and his friends decided to be a law to themselves, to
right one wrong by doing another, they had laid themselves open to
blame. A man must be held responsible for his actions, even when the
result is different from what he anticipates.

Behind his self-containment McCoy was suffering poignantly. He was on
his way to say good-bye to the girl wife he loved. It was his conviction
that when he emerged from the shadow now closing in upon him Ruth would
have passed out of his life. Already she had wearied of what he had to
offer. There was no likelihood that she would waste her young years
waiting for a man shut up in prison for his misdeeds. Far better for her
to cut loose from him as soon as possible. He intended to advise her to
sell the ranch, realize what she could in cash from it, and then file an
action for divorce. The law would operate to release her almost
automatically from a convict husband.

Mrs. Matson met him at the back door. She led the way to a living room
and stood aside to let him pass in. Then she closed the door behind him,
shutting herself out.

The parlour was lit only by shafts of moonlight pouring through the
windows. Ruth stood beside the mantel. She wore a white dress that had
always been a favourite of Rowan’s.

Neither of them spoke. He noticed that she was trembling. From out of
the darkness where she stood came a strangled little sob.

Rowan took the distance between them in two strides. He gathered her
into his arms, and she hid her face against his woollen shirt. She wept,
clinging to him, one arm tight about his neck.

He caressed her hair softly, murmuring the sweetheart words his thoughts
had given her through all the days of their separation. Not for many
years had he been so near tears himself.

Presently the sob convulsions that shook her slight body grew less
frequent. She dabbed at her eyes with a lace handkerchief.

“I’ve not been a good wife to you, Rowan,” she whispered at last. “You
don’t know how sometimes I’ve—hated you—and distrusted you. I’ve
thought all sorts of bad things about you, and some of them aren’t
true.”

His arms tightened. The wild desire was in him to hold her against the
world.

“I flirted with Larry Silcott,” she confessed. “I did it to—to punish
you. I’ve been horrid. But I loved you all the time. Even while I hated
you I loved you.”

The blood sang through his veins. “Why did you hate me?”

“I—I can’t tell you that. Not yet; some day maybe.”

“Was it something I did?”