The outlaw tried its wicked best, and no bronco in the Rockies was
better known than Tenderfoot for the fighting devil that slumbered in
its heart. Neither side bucking nor pitching, sunfishing nor weaving
could shake the lean-loined, broad-shouldered figure from his seat. It
was not merely that McCoy could not be unseated; there was never a
moment when there was any doubt of whether man or beast was master. Even
when the bronco flung itself backward, McCoy was in the saddle again
before the animal was on its feet.

The eyes of Ruth never left the fighting pair. She leaned forward,
fascinated, lost to everything in the world but the duel that was being
fought out in front of her. They were a splendid pair of animals, each
keyed to the highest notch of efficiency. But the one in the saddle was
something more. His perfect poise was no doubt instinctive, born of long
experience. His skill had become automatic. Yet back of this she sensed
mind, a will that flashed along the reins to the brute beneath. Slowly
Tenderfoot answered to its master, acknowledged the dominion of the man.

Its pitching became less violent, its bucking halfhearted. At a signal
from one of the judges, McCoy slipped from the saddle. Without an
instant’s delay, without a single glance at the storm-tossed grand
stand, the rider strode across the arena and disappeared. He did not
know that Ruth Trovillion was beating her gloved hands excitedly along
with five thousand other cheering spectators. He could not guess how her
heart had stood still when the bronco toppled backward, nor how it had
raced when his toes found again the stirrups as the horse struggled to
its feet.

The judges conferred for a few minutes before the megaphone man
announced that the championship belt went to McCoy, second prize to
Silcott. Once more the grand stand gave itself to eager applause of the
decision.

Just before the wild-horse race, which was the last event on the
program, McCoy made his way to the box where Miss Trovillion was sitting
with Tim Flanders, of the Elkhorn Lodge, and his wife.

The girl looked up, her eyes shining. “Congratulations, Mr. Champion of
the World.” She felt after a fashion that she had helped to beat the
conceited Silcott, the youth who had affronted her with his presumptuous
kiss.

“I was lucky,” he said simply.

“You were the best rider.” Then, with a little touch of feminine
ferocity: “I knew you would beat _him_.”

“Silcott? I still think I was lucky.”

Already the grand stand was beginning to empty. Round-up Week was almost
over.

“We’d better be getting back to town if we want any supper,” proposed
Flanders.

The same idea had suggested itself to several thousand more visitors to
Bad Ax. A throng of automobiles was presently creeping toward the gates,
every engine racing and every horn squawking. Once outside, the whole
plain seemed alive with moving cars, buckboards, wagons, and horses all
going swiftly townward in a mad race for hotels and restaurants.

Bad Ax was crowded to its suburbs. Hotels were jammed, rooming houses
doing a capacity business. A steady stream of automobiles had poured in
all week from Denver and other points. Trains loaded to the vestibules
had emptied themselves into the town. The bells of saloon cash registers
were ringing continuously. Cow-punchers from Sheridan and Cody jostled
shoulders with tourists from New Haven and Kansas City, their worn
leathers and faded gray shirts discarded for gaudy costumes that ran the
rainbow from sunset orange to violent shades of blue.

The whole town was a welter of barbaric colour. Streamers stretched
across from building to building, and “spielers” for side shows bawled
the merits of their attraction. Everywhere one met the loud gaiety of
youth on a frolic. Young as the night was, merrymakers were surging up
and down the streets tossing confetti and blowing horns.

In the crowded streets, after they had found something to eat in a
vacant store where the ladies of the Baptist church were serving a
supper, McCoy and Miss Trovillion became separated from their friends.
Hours later they wandered from the crowd toward the suburb where the
young woman and the Flanders family had found rooms.

Unaccountably their animation ebbed when they were alone under the
stars. They had been full of laughter and small talk so long as the
crowd jostled them. Now they could find neither. In every fibre of him
Rowan was aware of the slight, dainty figure moving by his side so
lightly. The delicate, penetrating fragrance of her personality came to
him with poignant sweetness.

Once his hand crept out and touched her white gown in the darkness. If
she knew, she gave no sign.