THE young man drew up his horse at the side of the dusty road and looked
across the barbed-wire fence into the orchard beyond. Far distant
against the horizon could be seen the blue mountain range of the Big
Horns, sharp-toothed, with fields of snow lying in the gulches. But in
the valley basin where he rode an untempered sun, too hot for May, beat
upon his brown neck and through the gray flannel shirt stretched taut
across his flat back.

The trees were clouds of soft blossoms and the green alfalfa beneath
looked delightfully cool. Warm and dry from travel as he was, that
shadowy paradise of pink and white bloom and lush deep grass called
mightily to him. A reader of character might have guessed that handsome
Larry Silcott followed the line of least resistance. If his face
betrayed no weakness, certainly it showed self-satisfaction, an assured
smug acceptance of the fact that he was popular and knew it. Yet his
friends, and he had many of them, would have protested that word smug.
He was a good fellow, amiable, friendly, anxious to please. At dance and
round-up he always had a smile or a laugh ready.

He caught a glimpse of the weathered roof of the ranch house where the
rambling road dipped into a draw. Well, it would wait there for him.
There were twenty-four hours in every day and seven days in each week.
Time was one thing Larry had plenty of. Why not climb the fence and
steal a long luxurious nap in the orchard of the Elkhorn Lodge? He
looked at his watch—and ten seconds later was trespassing with long
strides through the grass.

Larry was Irish by descent. He was five-and-twenty. He had the digestion
of an ostrich. For which good reasons and several others he whistled as
his quirt whipped the alfalfa tops from the stems. For the young range
rider was in love with life, the mere living. Take last night, now. He
had flirted outrageously at the Circle O T Ranch dance with Jack Cole’s
girl, though he had known she was expecting to be married before winter.
Jack was his friend, and he had annoyed him and made him jealous. Larry
had excited Kate with the flattery of a new conquest, and he had made
the ranchers and their wives smile tolerantly at the way he had “rushed”
her. All of this was grist to his mill. He liked to be envied, to be
admired, to be thought irresistible. His vanity accepted it as tribute
to his attractiveness. Besides, what harm did it do? Kate and Jack would
quarrel and make up. This would be a variation to the monotony of their
courtship. He had really done them a kindness, though probably Jack
would not recognize it as one.

Flinging himself down beneath a tree, he drew a deep breath of content.
Roving eyes swept the open pasture adjoining, the blue sky with its
westering sun ready to sink behind a crotch of the hills. His blinking
lids closed sleepily, and opened again while he nestled closer to the
ground and pillowed a dusky head on an arm. He had slept only two hours
the night before.

From the foliage above came a faint rustle followed by what might pass
as a discreet little cough. The range rider sat up as though he were
hinged at the hips, rose to his feet, and lifted the pinched-in felt hat
to a glimpse of blue in the shower of blossoms.

“Where did _you_ come from?” he demanded, face lifted to the foliage.

“From Keokuk, Iowa,” came the prompt answer.

He laughed at this literal response. “I’ll never believe it, ma’am.
You’re one of these banshees my mother used to talk about, or else
you’re a fairy or one of these here nymphs that dwell in trees.”

Through the blossoms he made out a slim figure of grace, vaguely
outlined in the mass of efflorescence.

Her laughter rippled down to him. “Sorry to disappoint you, sir. But I’m
a mere woman.”

“I ain’t so sure you won’t open up yore wings an’ fly away,” he
protested. “But if you’re givin’ me the straight of it, all I’ve got to
say is that I like women. I been waitin’ for one twenty-odd years. Last
night I dreamed I was gonna find her before sunset to-day. That’s
straight.”

She was seated on a branch, chin tilted in a little cupped fist, one
heel caught on the bough below to steady her. With an instinct wholly
feminine she dexterously arranged the skirt without being able to
conceal some inches of slender limb rising from a well-turned ankle.

“You’ll have to hasten on your way, then. The sun sets in half an hour,”
she told him.

His grin was genial, insinuating, an unfriendly critic might have said
impudent. “Room for argument, ma’am,” he demurred. “Funny, ain’t it,
that of all the millions of apple trees in the world I sat down under
this one—an’ while you were in it? Here we are, the man, the tree, an’
the girl, as you might say.”

“Are you listing the items in the order of their importance?” she asked.
“And anyhow we won’t be here long, since I am leaving now.”