XIII


THE NIGHT RAID

THE moon was just going under a cloud when Rowan and his two companions
rode away from the Circle Diamond. They had plenty of time before the
appointed hour at the Three Pines. Since they expected to ride hard
during the night, they took now a leisurely road gait in and out among
the hills.

There was little conversation. Cole was not friendly toward Silcott,
though he had had no open break with him. He still remembered with
resentment that night when Larry had flirted so outrageously with Kate.
To Jack Cole’s simple mind the thing had carried the earmarks of
treachery. The two had been rather close. They had slept under the same
tarp many a time. He could not understand the vanity which had driven
Larry to a public exhibition of his power with women. But he and Kate
had talked the thing out, had quarrelled and made up. His sense of
dignity kept him from settling the matter with Silcott by the simple
primitive method of fisticuffs. Therefore he bottled up his sense of
injury under a manner of cool aloofness.

Yerby and Rogers were waiting for them beneath the largest of the big
pines.

“Better ’light, boys,” suggested the Texan. “I reckon we might as well
kinder talk things over. We aim to bend the law consid’able to-night. If
any of you lads is feelin’ tol’able anxious he’d better burn the wind
back to camp. Old Man Trouble is right ahaid of us on the trail. Now’s
the time to holler. No use bellyachin’ when it’s too late.”

“Think we’re quitters?” Larry demanded indignantly.

“No, son, I don’t allow you are. If I did you can bet them
fifteen-dollar boots of yours that you or Sam Yerby one wouldn’t be
here. What I’m sayin’ is that this is serious business. Take a good,
square look at it before you-all go ahaid.”

“Sam’s quite right,” assented McCoy. “We’re going on a sheep raid, and
against a desperate man. We’re going to kill his sheep—ride them
down—stampede them. It’s not a nice business, and the law is dead
against us. I don’t like it a bit, but I’m going because it is the only
way to pound sense into Tait’s fool head. We’ve got to do it or shut up
shop.”

Rowan spoke with a gravity that carried conviction. He was a man notable
even in that country which bred strong men. His steel-gray eyes looked
out unafraid upon a world still primitive enough to demand proofs of any
man who aspired to leadership among his fellows. McCoy had long since
demonstrated his fitness to lead. No man in the Fryingpan country
doubted this. Hence his words now carried weight.

“I stand pat,” said Silcott.

Cole nodded agreement.

“Good enough. But understand this: We’re not man-killers. Tait is a bad
lot, all right, but we’re not out to get him. We’re going to mask,
surprise the camp, hold it up, do our business, then get out. Is that
plain?”

“Plain as the Map of Texas brand,” assented Yerby with a grin. “Listens
fine, too. But what have you arranged for Tait to be doing while you-all
is making him a prisoner?”

“He’ll be sleeping, Sam. Here’s the layout. One of the herders and the
dogs will be with the sheep. We’ll slip right up to the wagon and
capture Tait first thing. He’s a heavy sleeper—always was. Once we get
him the rest will be easy.”

The Texan nodded. “Ought to go through as per plan if the sheep are far
enough from the wagon.”

“They’ll be far enough away so that the dogs won’t bark at us.”

“Who is that?” cried Rogers, pointing to the trail below.

All of them with one consent stopped to watch the horseman riding up out
of the darkness.

“It’s Hal Falkner,” Cole cried in a low voice.

“Falkner! What’s he doing here?” demanded McCoy. He whirled on Silcott.
“Did you tell him where we were to-night, Larry?”

“No, I didn’t.”

“You told him something—that Tait had crossed the dead line and was
heading for Thunder Mountain.”