“Why are you going?” he wanted to know.

“A little matter, a mere trifle. You seem to have forgotten it, but—we
haven’t been introduced.”

“Now looky here, ma’am. What’s in a name? Some guys says, ‘Meet Mr.
Jones,’ an’ you claim you know me. Not a thing to that. It’s a heap more
fun to do our own introducin’. Now ain’t it? Honest Injun! I’m anything
you want to call me, an’ you’re Miss-Lady-in-the-Apple-Blossoms. An’ now
that’s been fixed, I reckon I’ll take the elevator up.”

The girl’s eyes sparkled. There was something attractive about this
young fellow’s impudence that robbed it of offence. Womanlike, her mind
ran to evasions. “You can’t come up. You’d shake down all the blossoms.”

“If I shook ’em all down but one I’ll bet the tree would bloom to beat
any other in the orchard.”

“If that is meant for a compliment——”

“No, Lady, for the truth.”

He caught the lowest limb and was about to swing himself up. Her sharp
“No!” held him an instant while their eyes met. A smile crept into his
and gave the face a roguish look, a touch of Pan.

“Will you come down then?”

“At my convenience, sir.”

An upward swing brought him to the fork of the tree. Yet a moment, and
he was beside her among the blossoms. Her eyes swept him in one swift
glance, curiously, a little shyly.

“With not even a by-your-leave. You are a claim jumper,” she said.

“No, ma’am. I’m locatin’ the one adjoinin’ yores.”

“You may have mine, since I’m vacating it.”

“Now don’t you,” he protested. “Let yoreself go once an’ be natural.
Like a human being. Hear that meadow-lark calling to his mate. He’s
tellin’ his lady friend how strong he is for her. Why even the
irrigation ditch is singin’ a right nice song about what a peach of a
day it is.”

The girl’s eyes appraised him without seeming to do so. So far the
cow-punchers she had met had been shy and awkward, red-faced and
perspiring. But this youth was none of these. The sun and the wind of
the Rockies had painted the tan on face and neck and hands, had
chiselled tiny humorous wrinkles that radiated from the corners of his
eyes. Every inch of the broad-rimmed felt hat, of the fancy silk
kerchief, of the decorated chaps, certified him a rider of the range.
But where had he picked up that spirited look of gay energy, that
whimsical smile which combined deference and audacity?

“He travels fast,” the girl announced to the world at large. “Which
reminds me that so must I.”

Larry too made a confidant of his environment. “I wonder how she’ll get
past me—unless she really has wings.”

“I’ve heard that all Westerners are gentlemen at heart,” she mused
aloud. “Of course he’ll let me past.”

“Now she’s tryin’ to flatter me. Nothin’ doing. We’ll give it out right
now that I’m no gentleman,” he replied, impersonally. Then, abandoning
his communion with the apple blossoms, he put a question to the young
woman who shared the tenancy of the tree with him: “Mind if I smoke?”

“Why should you ask me, since you confess—or do you boast?—that you
are no gentleman?”

From the pocket of his shirt he drew tobacco and paper, then rolled a
cigarette. “I’m one off an’ on,” he explained. “Whenever it don’t cramp
my style, you understand.”

She took advantage of his preoccupation with the “makings,” stepped
lightly to a neighbouring branch, swung to a lower one, and dropped
easily to earth.

The eyes that looked up at him sparkled triumph. “I wish you luck in
your search for that paragon you’re to meet before sunset,” she said.

“I’ll be lucky. Don’t you worry about that,” he boasted coolly. “Only I
don’t have to find her now. I’ve found her.”

Then, unexpectedly, they went down into the alfalfa together amid a
shower of apple blossoms. For he, swinging from the branch upon which he
sat, had dropped, turned his ankle on an outcropping root, and clutched
at her as he fell.