“I’ll be looking for you, Mr. McCoy.”

The cattleman told the simple truth when he said that he had not
forgotten her. The girl had been very much in his mind ever since he had
left her at the gate of the Lodge. He loved all young, clean life even
among animals, and she seemed to him the embodied youth of the world,
free and light-footed as a fawn in the misty break of day.

When McCoy reached Elkhorn Lodge after dinner Ruth introduced him to her
aunt, a thin, flat-bosomed spinster with the marks of ill health on her
face. Miss Morgan and her niece had come to the Rockies for the health
of the older woman, and were scheduled to make an indefinite stay.
Before the cattleman had talked with her five minutes he knew that Miss
Morgan viewed life from a narrow, Puritanic standpoint. He guessed that
there was little real sympathy between her and the vivid girl by her
side.

In her early years Ruth had been a lonely, repressed little soul. An
orphaned child, she had been brought up by this maiden lady, who looked
on the leggy, helter-skelter youngster with the tangled flying hair as a
burden laid upon her by the Lord. Ruth had been a lawless, wilful little
thing, naughty and painfully plain by the standard of her aunt; a
difficult little girl to train in the way she should go.

Surprisingly she had blossomed from the ugly-duckling stage into a most
attractive girl. Nobody had been more amazed at the transformation than
her aunt. The change was not merely external. The manner of Ruth had
become gentler, less wilful. As a nurse she had developed patience
toward the invalid.

“Do you mind if Mr. McCoy and I ride out to Flat Top for the sunset?”
she asked now.

“No, child. I’ll be all right. But don’t stay late,” Miss Morgan
assented a little fretfully. It was one of Ruth’s ways to become
absorbed in the interest of the moment to forgetfulness of everything
else. This was one of the penalties her friends paid for her vivid
enthusiasms.

The riders passed a poster tacked to a tree just outside the gates of
the ranch. It bore this legend:

─────────────────────────────────────

RIDE ’EM, COWBOYS!
ANNUAL ROUND-UP AT BAD AX
July 2, 3, and 4.
————
Best Bronco Busters, Ropers,
And Bulldoggers
From a Dozen States Will Compete
FOR WORLD’S CHAMPIONSHIP
————
Pony Races, Indian Dances, Balls,
and Street Carnival.
————
Also Fancy Roping and Riding
————
DON’T MISS THIS GREAT ROUND-UP.
IT’S A BIG LEAGUE SHOW.

─────────────────────────────────────

Ruth drew up to read it. She turned to her companion. “You’ll ride, I
suppose? Mr. Flanders says you’re a famous bronco buster.”

“I don’t reckon I will,” he answered. “Some of the boys entered me, but
I’ve decided not to go in this year.”

“Why not?”

“Gettin’ too old to be jolted around so rough,” he replied, smiling.
“The younger lads can take their turn.”

“Yes, you look as though you had one foot in the grave,” she derided,
with a swift glance at the muscular shoulders above the long, lean body.
“Of course you’ll ride. You’ve got to. Aren’t you champion of the
world?”

“That’s just a way of talkin’,” he explained. “They have one of these
shows each year at Cheyenne. Other places have ’em too. The winners
can’t all be champions of the world.”

“But I want to see you ride,” she told him, as though he could not
without discourtesy refuse so small a favour.

He dismissed this with a smile.

From Flat Top they watched the sun go down behind a sea of rounded
hills. The flame of it was in her blood, the glow of it on her face. She
was in love with Wyoming these days, with the cool and crystalline air
of its mornings, with the scarfs of heat waving across the desert at
noon, with the porphyry mountain peaks edged with fire at even. There
was this much of the poet in Ruth Trovillion, that she could go out at
dewy dawn and find a miracle in the sunrise.