“Not what you told several other people. How about it, Dunc? You want to
be an accessory to this crime?”

“No, sir, an’ I ain’t aimin’ to be either. If I knew anything I’d tell
you, but I can’t tell you what I don’t know, can I?”

The young man was no match for the sheriff. Before Matson had left the
place he knew all that King did.

Forty-eight hours later the sheriff with a posse rode up to the Circle
Diamond Ranch. Rowan McCoy was sitting on the porch oiling a gun. The
first glance told him that Matson had two prisoners, the second that
they were Falkner and Silcott.

Matson swung from the saddle and came up the steps to the porch.

“I’ve got bad news for you, Mac,” he said bluntly. “You’re under
arrest.”

The cattleman did not bat an eye. “What for?” he asked evenly.

“For killing Gilroy and Tait.”

“The damn fool’s going around arrestin’ everybody he knows, Mac,” broke
in Falkner.

McCoy observed that Falkner was hand-cuffed and that Silcott was not.

He asked the sheriff a question. “Do I understand that you’ve arrested
Hal an’ Larry for this, too?”

“Yes, Mac. Larry behaved sensible an’ promised not to make any trouble,
so I aim to be as easy on him as I can. Falkner had other notions. He
tried to make a gun play.”

“You takin’ us to Wagon Wheel, Aleck?”

“Yes.”

“You have a warrant for my arrest?”

The officer showed the warrant and Rowan glanced over it.

“All right,” said McCoy. “I’ll saddle up an’ be ready in a jiffy.”

“No need for that, Mac. Fact is, I’m not quite ready to start. Got a
little more business to do first. If you don’t mind I’ll make the Circle
Diamond my headquarters for a few hours,” Matson proposed amiably.

The owner of the ranch answered pleasantly but perhaps with a touch of
sarcasm. “Anything you say, Aleck. If yore boys are here at dinner time
I expect Mrs. Stovall can fix you-all up.”

“Sure, Mac, an’ if he needs horses or guns probably you can lend him a
few,” Falkner added with an oath. “An’ maybe a puncher or two to join
his damned posse.”

“No use gettin’ annoyed, Hal,” the ranch owner said quietly. “This looks
like a silly business to us, but Aleck has to make his play. He’s not
arrestin’ us for pleasure. I reckon he thinks he’s got some evidence, or
maybe he wants to scare us into thinkin’ he has some so he can pick up
something against someone else.”

“You’ll find I’ve got evidence aplenty, Mac,” the sheriff answered
mildly. “No hard feelings, you understand. All in the way of business.
Have I got yore word if I don’t put the cuffs on you that you’ll go with
me to Wagon Wheel quietly?”

“Yes. We’re not desperadoes, Aleck. We are just plain hill ranchmen. If
you’d just mentioned it we’d have come in without any posse to guard
us.”

“H’mp!” The sheriff made no other comment. He glanced at Falkner by way
of comment on McCoy’s criticism. “I’m leavin’ three of the boys here,
Mac. Be back here myself in a few hours, I reckon. If I don’t get back
I’ve arranged for you to make a start for town about two o’clock. That
agreeable to you?”

“Any time that suits you,” McCoy answered.

The sheriff was back within the specified time limit. He brought with
him Rogers and Yerby. From a remark he dropped later McCoy learned that
Cole had been arrested earlier in the day at Wagon Wheel.

“You are makin’ quite a gather, Aleck,” said Rogers. “There are several
other ranchmen up here you’ve overlooked. How about them?”

“I’ve got all I want for the present, Brad,” the sheriff replied.

His manner was not reassuring, nor was the fact that he had picked out
and arrested just the six men who had been engaged in the night raid.