About a hundred miles off the coast of Baja California, Scyth Radnor
sat in the control room of the big spacecraft. The dome was awash.
Scyth sat high in the dome watching the pleasantly lazy progress of a
forty foot schooner that was coming in his direction. It was a pretty
sight and Scyth appreciated it even though he had been born on Marandis
some thirty thousand years after the sail as a functional device had
been outmoded. Sail, to Scyth, was strictly a vacation sort of thing,
just as it was to Dusty Britton and a few billion other people whose
lives are geared to a time-table except for vacation time.

If there was any puzzlement over this, it was because Scyth's menslator
was not following the rocket, now laboring in free flight towards
Venus. Dusty, according to what Scyth had been able to pick up,
should have been there instead of here. But Scyth was not the burning
inquisitive type. He knew that there was some explanation and that he
could afford to wait until it was given instead of wasting a lot of
energy trying to figure out the motives of a member of a race unknown
to him.

He had better things to contemplate.

In the field of his telescope he could see a sight he approved of.

It was not Dusty Britton, lazing easily near the wheel of the schooner,
keeping the helm steady with his left foot because his hands were
occupied with a drink on one and a cigarette in the other. It was
Barbara Crandall, lying on the cabin on a blanket. Her ankles were
crossed and the arch of the upper foot was high and graceful. One
thigh, slightly higher than the other, glinted from the sunshine, dark
tan. Her breasts pointed at the sky, molded in dazzling white that
contrasted sharply against the healthy, animal tan of her flat tummy.
There were many more square feet of healthy hide showing than there
were of the white shark-skin affair she wore, and Scyth approved of the
view.

As he watched her, Dusty drained his drink, tossed his cigarette
overboard, and called:

"Hey, Barb! Get us another quart, will you?"

Scyth did not hear it, for his menslator was by no means that competent
a device. He just watched and wondered what they were saying.

Barbara called back, "Out of it already?"

"Yeah. I'd get it myself but someone's got to drive this rig."

"Don't mind." She stretched languorously and stood up, stretching high;
pulling in her stomach and arching her back with her arms stretched
high above her head. Scyth whistled inadvertently as her body went
taut against the wisps of dazzling white that crossed her breasts
and hips. She came along the cabin top, dropped into the cockpit,
and disappeared into the cabin. She came out a moment later with a
bottle which she opened and handed to Dusty. She took the wheel while
he poured. They toasted one another. They sat side by side, their
shoulders touching.

"Nice," she said quietly.

"You bet."

"Nice, quiet and peaceful."

Dusty addressed his glass and held it high. "Here's to the G. D. Space
Patrol."

"What are you supposed to be doing?"

Dusty laughed. "I don't know. I'll find out when we get back. Gramer
will have some flanged-up explanation right and ready for me."

"You'd better hope that the G. D. Space Patrol doesn't catch you all at
sea with me."

"Phooey," he said. He pursed his lips and Barbara gave him a gentle
peck that made Scyth's blood bubble slightly.

"Phooey nothing," she said. "You'd be--er--cashiered. Imagine a member
of The Space Patrol consorting with a woman."

"What's good enough for pappy is good enough for me."

Barbara chuckled knowingly. "Where are we heading, if it's of any
importance?"

"There's an island dead ahead. We might camp on the beach for the
night. It's fine clean sand and--"

"You mean that hummock over there?"