“I got the big fellow on a royal coachman. He took it with a rush,” she
explained.

McCoy cleaned the fish in the brook and cooked them in the pan when the
bacon grease was ready. They ate with the healthy appetite of outdoor
animals in the hills.

Ruth told him the gossip of the ranch and of the neighbourhood. She
retailed to him what she knew of the politics of the county. It pleased
her that his interest in these far-away topics was as yet perfunctory.
His world just now consisted of three persons, and of the three she was
the most important.

“You’re going to lose Jennings,” she told him.

“Isn’t he satisfied?”

Little imps of mischief danced in her eyes. “Not quite, but I think he’s
going to be. He has notions of marrying a handsome widow with a sheep
ranch.”

Rowan looked at her quickly. “You don’t mean Norma Tait?”

“Don’t I? Why not?” She added a corollary. “Norma is growing younger
every day. She has learned to laugh again.”

“I’m glad. Life plays some queer tricks, doesn’t it? But maybe in the
end things even up.”

From where she was cuddling the romping boy Ruth looked up and made
confession. “At first I thought I wouldn’t bring him with us. I wanted
these first days to be ours—just yours and mine. But that was selfish.
He has as much right to you as I have. Now I’m glad he is here. You
won’t think him in the way, will you?”

It did not seem to him necessary to answer that in words. He took little
Rowan into his arms and held him there till the child fell asleep.

When the baby was safely tucked up in the tent Ruth and Rowan walked to
the brow of the hill and watched the murk mist settle down into the
mountain cañons and drive the purple glow into the lake. They saw the
stars come out one by one until the heavens were full of them.

“The day is dead,” he said at last in a low voice which held the throb
of pain.

She knew that in his thoughts he was breasting again the troubled waters
that had swept them so far apart. Her warm, strong little hand slipped
into his. Cheerfully she took up his words:

“Yes, the day is dead—the long day so full of sorrow for us both. But
now the night has blotted out our grief. We are at peace—alone—beneath
the everlasting stars.”

He could not yet quite escape the net. “I’ve been a poor makeshift of a
husband, Ruth. I’ve brought you much worry and sorrow. And I’ve put a
stain on you and the boy that never can be wiped out.”

“You’ve brought me all that makes life brave and beautiful.” She turned
her buoyant head, and in the white moonlight her smile flashed radiant
upon him. “A new day is on the way to us, Rowan. The sun will reach down
into the valley there where you and I have been lost in the fog, and all
the mist will vanish as if it had never been.”

The man caught his breath sharply. She was so fine! With superb courage
and patience she had fought for him. All good things that life had to
offer should be hers. Instead, he brought her the poison of the
penitentiary record to taint her future.

Something of this he tried to tell her. “I’m a pardoned convict. Your
friends will never let you forget that—never.”

“Your friends are my friends. I have no others,” she told him, eyes
aglow. Then added, in a murmur: “Oh, my dear, as if what anybody says
matters now between you and me.”

Her faith was enough to save them both. He threw away his prudent doubts
and snatched her to him. In his kisses the lover spoke.

Presently they walked back to the camp through the gathering darkness. A
great peace lay over their world.

THE END




There’s More to Follow!

More stories of the sort you like; more, probably, by the author
of this one; more than 500 titles all told by writers of
world-wide reputation, in the Authors’ Alphabetical List which
you will find on the _reverse side_ of the wrapper of this book.
Look it over before you lay it aside. There are books here you
are sure to want—some, possibly, that you have _always_ wanted.