V


A RIDE

STILL at the age when she was frankly the centre of her own universe,
Ruth Trovillion had an abundant sense of romance. There was no intention
in her decided young mind of treading a road worn dusty by the feet of
the commonplace. On occasion a fine rapture filled her hours. She was
still reacting to the ecstatic shock of youth’s early-morning plunge
into the wonderful river of life.

Rowan McCoy had impressed himself upon her imagination. He had not come
into her life with jingling spurs, garnished like Larry Silcott with all
the picturesque trimmings of the frontier. Larry was too free, too
fresh, she thought. But McCoy, quiet, competent son of the hard-riding
West, depended on no adventitious aid of costume. He was as indigenous
and genuine as one of his own hill cattle. Ruth had admirers in plenty,
but they dwindled to non-heroic proportions before his brown virility,
his gentle, reticent strength.

Quietly she gathered information about him. The owner of the Circle
Diamond was a leader in the community by grace of natural fitness. Tim
Flanders, who kept the Elkhorn Lodge, summed him up for Ruth in two
sentences:

“He’s a straight-up rider, Mac is. He’ll do to take along.”

“What do you mean by that?” asked his young guest.

“You can tie to him. He’ll go through. There’s no yellow in Rowan
McCoy.”

She thought over that a good deal. Her judgment concurred. So far as it
went, the verdict of Flanders was sound. But it did not go far enough.
During the ride to the ranch she had discovered that the cattleman had a
capacity for silence. Ruth found herself fascinated by the desire to
push through to the personality behind the wall of reserve.

For some time she was given no chance. It was ten days after the rescue
before she saw him again.

She went on her way with what patience she could, enjoying the
activities of the “dude” ranch. She rode, fished, and picnicked in the
hills with the other guests. Two days were spent in climbing Big Twin
Peak. In the evenings she read to her aunt while that lady indefatigably
knitted. The surface of her mind was absorbed by the details of the life
arranged for her. McCoy was not on the horizon of her movements, but he
was very much in the map of her thoughts. She did not hear his name
mentioned. To these well-to-do people from the East spending a pleasant
vacation in Wyoming he did not exist. But it was impossible for Ruth to
get this quiet, steady-eyed man out of her mind.

Why did he not come to see her? Yet, even as she asked herself the
question, Ruth found an adequate answer. She had very little vanity.
Probably she had not interested him. There was no real reason why he
should call unless he wanted to do so.

Then one day, unexpectedly, she met him on a hill trail.

“Why haven’t you been to see me?” she asked, with the directness that
characterized her at times.

Yet she quaked at her own audacity. He might think even though he would
be too courteous to say so, that he did not care to waste the time.

He thought a moment before he committed himself to words. He had wanted
to come, but he had passed through an experience which made him very
reserved with women. He never called on any, nor did he go to dances or
merrymakings.

“I’ve been pretty busy, Miss Trovillion,” he said.

“That’s no excuse. I might have got pneumonia from wet feet or gone into
a nervous breakdown from the shock. You’ve got no right to pull a girl
out of the river and then ride away and forget she ever existed. It’s
not good form. They are not doing it this year.”

He laughed at the jaunty impudence of her tilted chin. Somehow she
reminded him of a young, singing meadow-lark experimenting with its
wings. He suspected shyness back of her audacity. Yet he was surprised
at his own answer when he heard it; at least he was surprised at the
impulse which had led him to make it.

“Oh, I haven’t forgotten you. I’ll be glad to come to see you, if I
may.”

“When?”

“Will this evening do?”