Out of the darkness sauntered Yerby, followed presently by Rogers.

“What’s on yore mind, Mac?” drawled Yerby, splattering expertly with
tobacco juice a flat rock shining in the moonlight.

Sam Yerby was an old cowman from Texas. As a youth he had driven cattle
on the Chisum Trail. Once, a small boy, he had spoken with Sam Bass, the
outlaw. In the palmy days of Dodge City and Abilene, while still in his
early teens, he had been a spectator of the wild life that overflowed
into the frontier towns. Physically he was a wrinkled little man with a
merry eye and a mild manner that was apt to deceive.

“Tait has crossed the dead line again. He is headed for the Thunder
Mountain country.”

Yerby rubbed a bristling cheek slowly with the palm of his hand. “Well,
I’ll be dog-goned! Looks like he’s gone loco,” he commented mildly.

The owner of the Circle B R broke into excited threats. “He’ll never
take his sheep back again—never in the world. I’ll not stand for it;
none of the boys will. Right now is when he gets all the trouble he
wants.”

“That your opinion, too, Sam?” asked Rowan quietly.

The faded blue eyes of the Texan had a far-away look. His fingers
caressed a chin rough with gray stubbles. He was thinking of his young
wife and his year-old baby. Their future depended upon his little cattle
ranch.

“I reckon, Mac. We got to fight some time. Might as well be right now.”

“To-night,” agreed McCoy decisively. “We’ll settle this before daybreak.
We don’t want too many in this thing. Five or six are enough.”

“Here are three of your six,” suggested Rogers.

“Larry Silcott is four. We’ve got to take Larry. He brought me the
news.”

“How about Dunc King? He’s a good boy—absolutely on the square.”

Rowan shook his head. “Let’s keep Dunc out of this. You know what a good
old lady Mrs. King is. We’ll not take her only son into trouble.
Besides, Dunc talks too much.”

“Well, Jack Cole. He’ll go through and padlock his mouth, too. I’d trust
Jack to a finish.”

“Cole is all right, Brad. You feel him out. Five of us are all that’s
needed. We’ll meet at the Three Pines at midnight. Sam, you and Brad can
decide to spend the night at home since we’re camping so near your
places. I’ll drive my bunch of cows down to the Circle Diamond as an
excuse to get away. I can take Jack and Larry with me to help. Probably
you had better hang around till after we’ve been gone a while.”

The Circle Diamond cattle were cut out from the bunch and started
homeward. Rowan, with Silcott and Cole to help him on the drive,
vanished after them into the night.

“Funny Mac didn’t start at sunset. What’s the idea of waiting till
night?” asked King of Falkner, who sat beside him at the campfire.

“Beats me.” Falkner scowled at the leaping flames. His face was still
decorated with half a dozen ugly cuts and as many bruises, souvenirs of
his encounter with Tait. Just now he was full of suspicions, vague and
indefinite as yet, but none the less active. For Larry had told him the
news he had brought.

“Sing the old Chisum Trail song, Sam,” demanded a cow-puncher.

A chorus of shouts backed the request.

“Cain’t you boys ever leave the old man alone?” complained Yerby. “I
done bust my laig to-day when I fell off’n that pinto. I’ve got a half a
notion to light a shuck for home and get Missie to rub on some o’ that
white liniment she makes. It’s the healin’est medicine ever I took.”

“Don’t be a piker, Sam. Sing for us.”

“What’ll I sing? I done sung that trail song yesterday.”

“Anything. Leave it to you.”

The old Texan piped up lugubriously, a twinkle in his tired eyes:

“Come, all you old cow-punchers, a story I will tell,
And if you’ll be quiet I’m sure I’ll sing it well,
And if you boys don’t like it, you sure can go to hell!”