“Who?”

“Hal Falkner. He knows who started the shooting and who killed Dan
Gilroy.”

“I’ve hardly met him. Do you think he would tell me?”

“Maybe he would.” He smiled a little. “I notice you mostly get yore way.
Hal’s rough-and-ready. Don’t you mind it if he acts gruff. That’s just
his way.”

“I’ll go see him.”

“I reckon it won’t do any harm. But I can tell you one thing, anyhow. If
you give Mac the benefit of all the doubts, it will be about what’s
right. He saved the herders from Falkner. Silcott testified to that.
Before Gilroy was shot I heard yore husband holler to stop firing. Now
wouldn’t it be onreasonable to figure that he gunned Dan himself right
away? If Mac wouldn’t tell you-all what happened it was because we had
all made a solemn agreement not to talk.”

“Do you think that is it?”

“I shorely do.”

“I’m so glad.”

“An’, Miss Ruth?”

“Yes, Mr. Yerby?”

He hesitated before he made the plunge. “I won’t see you-all again for a
long time, maybe never. You’re young and proud and high-heeled, like
you-all got a perfect right to be. But I want to say this: If you live
to be a hundred, yo’ll never meet any one that’s more of a man than
Rowan McCoy. He’s white clear through. I’ve seen a right smart of men in
my time. Most o’ them had a streak of lean and a streak of fat, as the
old saying goes. But yore husband, he assays ’way up all the time. Good
luck or bad makes no difference with him. He’s the real stuff.”

A wistful little smile touched her face. “He has one good friend,
anyhow.”

“He has hundreds. He deserves them, too.”

“I’ve got to say good-bye now, Mr. Yerby.” She gave him both hands.
Tears blurred her eyes so that she could scarcely see him. “Good-bye.
Heaps of luck—oh, lots of it! And don’t worry about Missie and Boy.”

“I’ll not worry half so much now, little friend. And I’m hoping all that
luck will come to you, too.”

From Sheriff Matson Ruth secured a permit to see Falkner.

The cow-puncher was brought, hand-cuffed, into the office of the jailer.
It was an effect of his sudden, furious temper that his guards never
took any chances with him. None of the friendly little privileges that
fell to the other prisoners came his way.

“Mrs. McCoy wants to talk with you, Hal,” explained Ackerman, the
jailer. “Don’t make any mistake about this. I’ll be in the outer room
there with a gat. I’ve got a guard under the window. This is no time to
try for a get-away.”

Falkner looked at him with an ugly sneer. “Glad you mentioned it, Steve.
I’ll postpone any notions I may have in that line, but, take it from me,
they are merely postponed. When the time comes I’m going.”

Ackerman shrugged his shoulders and left the room. He thought it
altogether likely that some day Falkner would have the top of his head
blown off, but he did not want to have to do the job.

“I’ve come to ask a favour of you, Mr. Falkner,” Ruth blurted out.

Her courage was beginning to ebb. The man looked so formidable now that
she was alone with him. His reputation, she knew, was bad. More than
once, when she had met him on horseback in the hills, the look in his
burning black eyes had sent little shivers through her.

“A favour of me, Mrs. McCoy! Ain’t that a come-down? Didn’t know you
knew I was on the map. You’re sure honouring me,” he jeered.

It was his habit to take note in his sullen fashion of all good-looking
women. When he had seen her about the ranch or riding with her husband
or Larry Silcott he had resented it that this slender, vivid girl who
moved with such quick animal grace, whose parted lips and shining eyes
were so charmingly eager, had taken him in apparently only as a detail
of the scenery.

Now his dark eyes, set deep in the sockets, narrowed suspiciously. What
did she want of him? What possible favour was there that he could give
her?