XXVIII.


Annie passed the night at Kirby Park; and, when she and Harry were
sitting at breakfast the next morning, he told her he should come and
see her act that night.

“Then will you come up to town with me?” she asked eagerly.

Her husband hesitated.

“I don’t know whether I can, Annie. I have some things to see to down
here before I start, and something to do in town when I get up there,
so that I cannot be at your rooms till about four.”

Her face clouded.

“Something to do in town!” she echoed, watching him narrowly, and
noting the expression into which his face had set during the last few
minutes. “Is it--to see some one, Harry?” she asked timidly.

“Yes, a business appointment.”

“Oh, Harry, it is to see Stephen, I know! What are you going to do?
What are you going to say? You look as if you would kill him!”

“Don’t be afraid. How could I condescend to touch the little misshapen
wretch, who has not as much strength in his whole body as I have in one
finger? But I am going to see him, and to-day.”

She saw that it was impossible to alter her husband’s resolutions, so
she desisted from her persuasions; but there was a terrible fear at
her heart which she could not shake off. She knew the violence of her
husband’s temper, and feared it all the more under this new aspect
of repression. She made up her mind to go to Stephen and warn him of
Harry’s coming, and to beg him not to exasperate her husband further
by any attempt at concealment and false excuses, but to make a frank
confession, such as would, she felt sure, be more likely than anything
else to avert Harry’s anger. Once resolved on this course, she let
the conversation turn to indifferent subjects, and it was not until
breakfast was nearly over that she pretended to remember an appointment
with her dressmaker which would make it necessary for her to go up to
town before luncheon. She did it too naturally to excite in her husband
any suspicions of her good faith, and he went to the station with her,
and parted with her very reluctantly, although he expected to be with
her again in a few hours.

Annie herself felt something more than reluctance; she was seized with
a foreboding of evil.

“Ah, Harry,” she said, laying a trembling hand upon his arm, “I wish I
were not married to you!”

“Why?” asked he, startled.

“Because then perhaps you might do what you did long ago, fling all
considerations of business and duty to the winds and jump into the
train with me.”

“Do you think my love was better worth having then than now?” he asked
softly.

“N-o, perhaps not. Still I wish the wife had as much influence as the
girl had.”

If the train had been in the station, she in it, and he at the door,
these words would have carried him off. As it was, standing on the
platform beside her, Harry was seized with a great trembling, and,
walking away from her a few steps, he came back and said to her, low
and reproachfully:

“That is the first time you have ever tempted me to what was not right,
Annie. If the train had been here, your words would have made me jump
in, and, for the first time since I have had work to do, I should have
neglected it--and through you. I have a lot to see to at the stables
this morning, and an appointment to keep with Captain King before I go
up to town. But I can’t resist you; so, if you love me, Annie, and if
you care for what people think of me and say of me, don’t ask me again,
my darling, for I can’t say ‘No’ to you.”

The young wife, self-possessed and independent as she usually was, hung
her head. These words of his, inspiring in her a strong feeling of
respect, did much to restore her confidence in his self-command when
dealing with his treacherous cousin. As she took the rebuke silently,
Harry began to be alarmed at the effect he had produced.

“You are not angry with me, are you, darling? You look as if I had been
scolding you, as if we had changed places.”

“Changed places, Harry!” cried she, looking up in astonishment.