It was a long time before the gentlemen came in to break the silence in
the drawing-room. Lady Braithwaite was dozing, Lilian was sitting on
the hearth-rug, playing with a retriever pup, Annie was softly trying
over songs at the piano at the other end. Sounds of high voices and
loud laughter came from time to time across the hall; at last they
heard the dining-room door open, and Harry’s voice above the rest in
tones of high excitement.

“I tell you I can prove it, I can prove it!” he was saying to George as
they two came in first; his face was flushed and his gait unsteady, and
his manner more dictatorial than ever.

“How can you prove it?” asked George, who might have been drinking as
much, but who showed it less.

“By a paper I’ve got somewhere. Annie,” said he to his wife, scarcely
turning toward where she sat at the piano, “where is that American
paper the colonel gave me, about the trotting-matches?”

“I packed it with your papers. I can find it if you want it.”

“Yes, yes, I want it. Then I’ll show you I was right,” said he,
triumphantly, to his brother. Annie had risen, and was crossing the
room to the door. George interposed.

“No, no, not to-night. Don’t you see she is tired? You can’t ask her to
ransack your portmanteau to-night for a paper of no importance. It will
do to-morrow.”

“No, it won’t do to-morrow,” said Harry, who was not in a state to
brook contradiction. “I say I will prove it to you now, to-night. It
is of importance, of great importance, very important! You said I was
wrong; I say I’m right, and I’ll prove it.”

Before the end of this speech, the last words of which were spoken
with halting gravity, Annie had left the room, gently insisting upon
passing George, who would still have tried to prevent her going. Harry,
luckily, did not see his brother’s good-natured attempt to save his
tired little wife a tedious search for an old newspaper. She went up
to their room; it was Harry’s old room, with a second little bed put
up in it. His portmanteau had been unstrapped. She turned out the
gas in trying to turn it up; so she opened the door and dragged the
portmanteau into the corridor, under the burner outside.

Fatigue had dulled her faculties, and it was a long time before she
found what she wanted. She was still searching when she heard heavy
footsteps behind her, and looking round from where she was on her
knees, she saw Wilfred leaning against the friendly wall.

“Let me help you,” said he; and he knelt down beside her, not without
difficulty.

She thanked him, though his assistance was not likely to prove valuable.

“Harry is a brute to you,” he said, solemnly.

“Oh, no; he is only a little thoughtless!”

“Yes, he is,” said Wilfred. “He is a brute, because he is a fool. But
he will have to treat you better now he has brought you home. We’ll see
to that.”

“Oh, I hope you won’t interfere; it would only make it a great deal
worse for me! He is not cruel to me, and I don’t mind his neglect.”

“I dare say you would rather have his neglect than his attention, and
I quite agree with you. And now you have three nice new brothers, who
will give you all the attention you want,” said he, looking at her
affectionately over the portmanteau, while he supported himself on his
elbows on the edge of it.

“Thank you; you won’t find me very exacting,” said she, turning over
some papers in search of the one she wanted.

But he would not go.

“You maybe as exacting as you like to me,” he continued, monotonously;
“I would do anything for you. You are a sweet, good little lady, and
you may take me to church if you like.”

She had at last found what she wanted, and rose quickly from her knees,
while Wilfred slowly followed her example. She had shut the portmanteau
and pushed it back into the room before he had had time to do more than
offer to do so.

As she shut the door and was going down-stairs, he put his hand gently
on her arm, and they went down-stairs together. In the hall he said,
gently:

“You need not think I am offended because you wouldn’t let me help
you,” and went off to the billiard-room.