“Not I, not I,” murmured he, in a broken voice. “There is nothing left
for me. She had promised to marry me--she is not a lady by birth, you
know, and I could have made her one by position. I would have worked
for her--I have worked for her--I have done more. But I used up all I
had too fast--she saw I had no more; she said, if she married me, we
should starve. And she looked at me quite coldly with her beautiful
eyes, and said she was not well-educated enough to marry a gentleman--a
gentleman! I, a poor cripple! It was that--it is always that! There is
no happiness, no love for me; nothing but pity--wretched, miserable,
scornful pity, that stings me more than taunts, more than hatred. She
pitied me, I dare say, and laughed at me, and let me go;” and he broke
down into incoherent words and sobbing.

Annie tried bright words of encouragement, asked him if he thought
nothing of her friendship, of that of the rest of his family; but she
spoke to deaf ears. When at length she rose to go, he gave her his hand
and said, but still coldly:

“Thank you. I shall be glad presently that you came. It was good of you
to come--generous--and I thank you. If I had a long life before me, I
would try to do you some service; but I am played out now, and there is
not much of my life left to run. Good-bye, Annie.”

She could not stay. His last words were almost a command to go. She
had not mentioned her husband’s name. She thought that, in the state
of mind in which she was leaving the cripple, the dread of an angry
visitor might make him desperate; and she knew very well that, when
Harry saw the miserable condition to which his sensitive cousin was
reduced, he was no more likely to be unmerciful than she had been.

But she could not shake off a foreboding that the meeting between the
cousins would be productive of evil, and she reached home anxious and
thoughtful.

Her misgivings were not without foundation.

Within an hour of her departure from Stephen’s lodging, Harry drove up
in a hansom and was directed, as his wife had been, to the little room
on the top floor. He entered with a very stern face and firm tread; but
the sight of the cripple, lying half on the sofa, half on a chair, in a
state of utter prostration of body and mind, made him pause. The other
looked up at him without fear, without feeling of any kind.

“Do you know me?” asked Harry, abruptly.

“Yes; what do you want here?”

“I want an explanation. If you do not feel fit to give it to me now, I
will come again. But I must have it, and the less delay the better.”

“Ask your wife, then. She has a better head than you, and understands
without so much talking. Go to her for your explanations, and leave me
in peace.”

“Not yet. I want some reason for your stopping my letters to her and
her letters to me, for taking the presents we intrusted to your care to
be given to each other, and for giving her money, my flowers, and even
her jewelry to a greedy, extravagant, worthless woman whom you couldn’t
satisfy if you had gold mines to give her. That is what I want you to
answer.”

The cripple had raised himself, his eyes glittering with fury, and he
sat frowning maliciously at his cousin until the latter had finished
his speech.

“Then I won’t answer you, except to say this; you are very good now,
and look upon extravagance and waste as very wicked things. But you
haven’t been a saint so very long that you can have forgotten that you
yourself were as greedy and worthless as any one I knew once, and that
you forged your father’s name to supply your own extravagance, which,
it seems to me, is worse than to stoop to meanness for the sake of a
woman you love and for whom you would die.”

The last words he spoke in a low voice, looking straight in front of
him with his glittering, feverish eyes; and his hand moved restlessly
toward his coat-pocket as he finished speaking.

“Look here!” said Harry, in a softer voice. “I don’t want to be hard on
you. I know I’ve done as bad things myself, if not worse; and, if I’m a
saint now, it’s the first I’ve heard of it. But, if you’re so fond of
this woman as you say, I wonder how you could have the heart to play
such confoundedly nasty tricks with the love of another man, and to
such an angel as Annie, who had always been kind to you too?”

“Your love? Your love was nothing to mine!” Stephen burst out,
contemptuously. “A woman may have a place in your heart; but your dogs
and your horses fill the rest of it. You are handsome, straight; if
one woman will not smile on you, another will; while I, who love sweet
eyes and fair faces with a passion you cannot dream of, can only buy
kindness from a woman by the ceaseless labor of ministering to all her
wants, all her caprices; and then, when at last the time comes when I
can give no more, I am cast aside and forgotten for--for one of your
sort, with a pair of blue eyes that say nothing, and a head that can’t
put two ideas together.”