Already during the few weeks of their wedded life, it had needed all
the strength of his outbursts of demonstrative affection, all the
bright contentment she felt at her release from schoolroom drudgery,
to cloak the fact that they had not one taste, one sympathy in common;
that their tempers were ill suited to each other, and the moral
standard of the wife as different from that of the husband as light
from darkness. This crime, which Harry had made light of, tore down the
last shred of illusion from before the eyes of the wife of eighteen.
She had made an awful mistake. Carried away by the passionate pleading
of a headstrong boy at a time when she felt herself to be utterly
friendless, and when his impulsive remorse had seemed to her to show a
high and generous nature, she had bound herself by a tie which would
last her life to an ignorant, uncouth, unprincipled lad who did not
even love her. For already the sensitive woman felt that his caresses
were growing careless; and she knew that no husband of a few weeks
could have used the words Harry had used to-day to a woman for whom he
cared deeply.

Harry had gone out; and for three long hours Annie knelt on the floor
by the bed pondering what she should do with her life, and praying for
help to show her where her duty lay. She came to a resolution strangely
wise for so young a woman; and, when her husband returned, she was
as nearly her usual bright self as she could manage to be. Harry, of
course, did not appreciate the struggle she had gone through before she
could do this, but came to the conclusion that she saw how silly she
had been to make such a fuss about a trifle which did not concern her,
and thought it was time for him to show a little just indignation at
finding his brother’s arm round her.

But she stopped him with surprising promptness, as if his remarks were
beneath argument. He began to bluster a little.

“Do you really doubt the propriety of my conduct?” she asked, coldly.

“Well, it is not a usual thing, is it, to find one’s wife--er--er--like
that?”

“Is it a usual thing for a wife to be requested by her husband to
conceal the fact that she is married, especially from his relatives?”

“Why, no, of course not! And it doesn’t matter now, you see, since
I told my father all about it,” said Harry, trying to speak more
good-humoredly, since he saw by the steady look of his wife’s eyes, as
he had seen before in less serious discussions, that, if the argument
went on he would get very much the worst of it.

So the peace was kept between them, though the warmth of their feelings
for each other was getting rapidly less. An incident happened a few
days later, however, which revived it for a time. George’s promised
proposal came, and Harry had scarcely read it before he was at
his wife’s feet, pressing his lips to her very dress with all the
enthusiasm of a few weeks back.

“He wants us to go to the Grange--not for my sake, though; but to get
you there; but he sha’n’t! I’d sweep a crossing rather than let you go
there! My generous brother--hang him!”

“To go to the Grange! To live there?”

“Yes; that is his way of fulfilling his promise to our father. He says
there are too many burdens on the estate for him to make me a suitable
allowance, unless we go and live there. But I wouldn’t let you go there
for the world!”

“But, Harry, I should be quite safe with you. You speak of your brother
as if he were a savage.”

“So he is. We are all a set of savages; and, being a savage myself, you
see, I know how to trust the rest. I tell you you shall not go; and, if
you try to persuade me, I shall think you don’t love me.”

He flung his arm round her, and looked up into her face with an air of
boyish authority which she did not attempt to resist, though it made
her smile. A few months of self-dependence had made her so much older,
so much wiser than this spoiled child who was her lord and master.

She knew he could not live long in defiance of his elder brother; she
knew he had no money of his own, and no capabilities of making any, or
that, if he had any capabilities, he had no intention of using them. He
had indeed most of the qualities necessary in a groom and some of those
wanted by a jockey; but, being a gentleman, though he could copy their
manners and share their tastes, he could follow their occupations only
as an amusement. He had given her money so recklessly at first that
she, though inclined to be extravagant, had, without saying anything to
him about it, put some by in case of an emergency; so that, when his
supplies to her stopped rather suddenly, she was able to go on paying
their weekly bills without running into debt. But this could not last
long; and she began to look out for some music-pupils, still without
saying anything to her husband, whose pride would have cried out at the
idea of his wife working for her living and his.