“But, if I make myself ill again, you will have to nurse me.”

“Indeed, you are mistaken!” answered Annie, raising her eyes to his
with spirit. “If now, after being warned, you choose, rashly, to put
your life in danger, and to undo all the good our constant watching and
nursing have done you, I shall not consider myself bound to sacrifice
myself any longer to a man who could be guilty of such foolish and
selfish conduct, whether he is my husband or not.”

“Then you would leave me to die while you went on enjoying your
‘career,’ as you call it?”

“I would leave you to take your chance.”

Harry began to tremble all over, and the tears rose to his eyes. His
hand relaxed its hold on Annie’s arm, and fell down by his side.

Softened, frightened by the effect of her words, Annie clasped her
little hands on his shoulder, and told him not to take her words so
seriously, that she had spoken them only because she wanted him to take
care of himself and get well fast.

“No, you don’t--no, you don’t! You want me to die, so that you may be
free!” said he, in a hoarse, tremulous voice, keeping his head turned
away from her.

Happily, his own emotion prevented his noticing the effect of his words
on Annie, whose cheeks flushed suddenly, and whose tongue faltered as
she was about to interrupt him. He continued:

“I see, I see! You want me to drink and kill myself, or ruin myself, so
that you may go away and get praised for being a martyr! Go away--go
away from me! I don’t want your little soft hands about me, when all
the while I know your heart is hard and you hate me!” said he, shaking
her off, vehemently.

Annie rose slowly, and walked with downcast head toward the door. But
she had not shut it behind her before her husband’s voice called her
back.

“Annie, Annie--come here--only one minute! I want to speak to you!”

She returned, and stood, with her eyes still down, very meekly before
him.

“Annie,” said he, stretching forward to take her hand and draw her
toward him, “I didn’t mean what I said just now. I was only in fun--at
least I didn’t think what I was saying. I--I wanted to see if you would
believe me. I know you don’t want me to die; and look here--if you will
promise not to go away yet I won’t sit up with George, and I will drink
only just what you let me, and I’ll do just what you tell me--till I
get well.”

Annie shook her head.

“I will--I swear it! Now you will stay, won’t you? Here--give me your
other hand. There! I swear to do just what you tell me--till I get
well. Now promise not to go to London. No--you swear, too,” said he,
eagerly.

“I promise----”

“No, swear.”

“I swear not to go to London till you are quite well, if you don’t do
anything rash. There--I hear the dog-cart. Harry, I must go to the door
to meet him.”

“Meet who?”

“George, of course.”

“Confound George!”

But Annie was already out of the room.

She was flushed with the excitement of the successful battle she had
just had with her husband, and with the other excitement of meeting
her eldest brother-in-law, and George showed nothing but pleasure at
sight of her. They came into the drawing-room talking brightly, and
the baronet scarcely exchanged more than a couple of sentences and a
hand-shake with his surly brother, so pleased was he to find a pleasant
woman again in his house.

When Wilfred arrived, just before dinner, he in his turn engrossed her
completely; and at dinner these two new-comers took up so much of her
attention that the convalescent Harry, who was at dinner with the rest
for the first time since his illness, began to look very black, and to
find fault with everything which was put before him.