“You forget that I’m an actress,” said Annie, composedly.

“Were an actress; but you’re not one now,” answered he, hastily. “Well,
if you never cared for any actor, why not for Colonel Richardson? He is
handsome, and knows how to talk to you about the things you like.”

“But I have told you already that I never cared for Colonel Richardson:
and your persistent jealousy is an insult to me when I tell you it has
no foundation. He belongs to a type of man which has no attraction for
me.”

“What type’s that?”

“He is an idler; and I have worked too long and too hard myself not to
despise idleness in a man.”

Harry gave a grunt of disapproval.

“I suppose you call me an idler.”

“Well, I don’t think you are much else,” said she, smiling.

“It seems to me, Annie, you expect a precious deal too much of a man,”
he grumbled presently, in an injured tone. “To please you he must slave
like a nigger, whether he has any need to work or not, and read himself
blind over the dullest trash that ever was printed, and never talk
about anything he himself likes, but chatter by the yard about things
that haven’t the least interest, and beam all over with smiles when he
is annoyed.”

Annie laughed.

“I don’t think I ever expected all that of anybody, and certainly not
of you, Harry.”

And weary of this useless discussion, she left the room as Stephen
entered it. The friendship between her and the cripple had never been
great, and he was now rather jealous of her position in the household,
which had become stronger than that of his adored Lilian, with whom,
however, he had begun of late to have serious quarrels. Harry had let
slip the fact that it was Stephen who had informed him of Colonel
Richardson’s presence in Beckham, which had so needlessly excited his
jealousy. Annie wondered what his object could have been.

When she left them together, Harry jumped up from his chair and faced
his cousin.

“What do you come tormenting me for with your humbugging stories about
Annie and Richardson? She doesn’t care a straw for the fellow!”

“Doesn’t she? Oh, that’s all right!” said Stephen, meaningly.

“No; she only spoke to him out of civility,” said Harry, raising his
voice, but looking anxiously at the other. “Here--what do you mean with
your confounded shrugs and squirms? Look me straight in the face, and
say out what you mean?”

The cripple was trembling and his face paling, but not with fear of his
companion. He hesitated for one moment, then said, in a hurried low
voice, as if the words were wrenched from him against his will:

“Very well; don’t mind what I say. Of course I am warning you only for
fun, for my own amusement. First go and tell her what nonsense I’ve
been talking, and then--then let her meet Colonel Richardson at the
lower gate at eleven to-night, and, take my word for it, you won’t be
troubled with your wife any more.”

“Liar!” hissed out Harry.

“Oh, it is only my fun, of course,” sneered the cripple.

Harry stood for a moment leaning heavily on the table. His first
instinct was to seize his cousin by the collar and confront him with
Annie; but the next moment a terrible fear that this was the truth that
he was hearing seized him, and a sudden desperate resolve stopped his
hand and restored him to an appearance of calmness.

The hideous story seemed to him in his excited state only too likely.
This would explain her anxiety to get away, her comparative coldness
toward himself, and would justify the suspicions he had, not of her
purity, but of her faith.

“I hate her, I hate her,” he said to himself, as he dashed away from
Stephen, out of the library, and flung himself down upon a seat in the
empty billiard-room, with his head in his hands. “I thought I did, and
now I know it. The little, deceitful, heartless vixen! I’ll just take
a leaf out of her own book, and see if I can’t be loving while I mean
all the time to make her suffer. You despise me, do you, my lady? I’m
a clod, am I? We’ll see to-night if we can’t turn the tables for once.
You thought you could turn me round your little finger, I’ll warrant,
and laughed at me, and thought me a boor and a silly fool to be fond of
you. But you are mistaken, my fine lady! I hate you, I loathe you, and
I’ll prove it to you to-night!”