XXIV.


The nightly duty Annie had to perform at the theater was all that
saved her from a serious illness, as the result of the acute misery
she suffered for some time after the eventful day on which the
discovery of her husband’s faithlessness had succeeded to Aubrey’s
reproaches. How wise she now felt herself to have been in mistrusting
the professions of affection which Harry had made on his recovery, in
the hope of inducing her to remain at the Grange until his passing
fancy for her society was quite worn out! If she had yielded to his
entreaties, she would have lost the chance she had had in “Nathalie,”
and would have been now entirely at the mercy of her careless husband,
who had taken the first pretext he could find for freeing himself from
the restraint of her society, and, under the pretense of working for
her, returning to more congenial companionship--perhaps to that of
Susan Green, the blacksmith’s daughter. And he had been so lost to all
sense of decency as to use the same messenger to her and to Muriel West.

Annie was wiser now than she had been when she first came to London
alone, after the few miserable months of wedded life which had ended
in such a terrible fiasco at the Grange. Then she had given way to
grieving in secret over the wreck of her life; but now, with the
philosophy which comes of a riper knowledge of the world, she hid
away her regrets as well as she could, and threw herself into the
life around her, which presented many attractions to the rising young
actress.

All her efforts to find out any of the members of her husband’s family
were unavailing. She could not leave town, or she would have returned
to Beckham, to see if any of them were haunting the old place yet.
She heard from William; but he was in Ireland, and had heard nothing
certain about the movements of the rest. She wanted to know how George
had borne the crash, and what had become of Wilfred, and whether the
shock had sobered him. But she was forced to wait until Stephen, who
had given her no address that she could write to, should again call and
fulfill his promise of keeping her informed at least concerning her
husband’s health.

She had begun to wonder whether he had forgotten all about it, or
whether Harry had forbidden him to hold any further communication
with her, when Stephen made his appearance in her sitting-room one
afternoon, looking very haggard and unhappy.

“How ill you are looking, Stephen! You have not been taking proper care
of yourself. Has Lady Braithwaite seen you lately, or Lilian?”

“Lilian wouldn’t care if she did,” he answered, sullenly. “All she
cares for is herself and her own comfort; and, when that is secured,
all the rest of the world may get on as it can.”

From which speech, and still more from the way in which it was
delivered, Annie came to the conclusion that the lame man’s infatuation
for his cousin was at an end. His release did not seem to have made him
any the happier, however, and it was evident from his appearance that
he was in a deplorable state of ill-health.

“You have brought me news of Harry?” she asked, presently, when she had
made him rest on the sofa and brought him a cup of tea.

“Yes; but there is not much to tell. He is getting on, but he has not
written this time.”

“Not written! Why is that? He might surely have sent me a few lines by
you, if he did not choose to write by the post. I have been expecting
to hear from him every day for at least a week. Stephen,” she went on
earnestly, drawing her chair nearer to the sofa, and speaking with
all the soft persuasion she could put into her voice, “there must be
some reason for this--some reason that you know and can tell me if
you choose. Do let me know what it means, Stephen. You would not keep
anything from me that I ought to know, would you? I am sure you could
not be so cruel. He is ill, and you don’t like to tell me so.”

“No; he is quite well--upon my honor he is! It is only that he is not
getting on so fast as he wishes to, and he is too despondent just now
to write.”

“But how does he live? I am sure he has no money, and he is used, poor
fellow, to having it for the asking.”

“No, indeed--it took a good deal of asking, and of a very pressing
kind, to get money out of George lately. But it is always difficult for
a man with no capital to get on.”

“Look here, Stephen. I have some money that I have saved; you must take
it. If Harry won’t have it when he hears it is mine, you must tell him
it is his share of the proceeds of the sale at the Grange. Poor old
Grange! I read about the sale the other day. I can’t think what has
changed Harry so much; he used not to be overproud in money matters,
and now he is as tiresome as possible the other way. Tell him any story
you like, so that you make him take it.”