“No disrespect to the army, I beg, madam. It is very hard work to get
in at all nowadays. No Braithwaite ever had to study so much before
as I shall have to do to pass the exams. I’m sure to be ‘plucked’ the
first time, of course, and very likely the second. I must get through
the third time, you know, or else it will be all up with me.”

“You must get through the first time,” said Annie indignantly. “If you
don’t, I will never speak to you again.”

“Oh, yes, you will. If I don’t pass, you will have to console me, and,
if I do pass, you will congratulate me. Oh, Annie, I wish I had been
old enough to marry you, or that you had married George, so that you
might come back to the Elms again.” No suggestion that she should go
back to Harry, however. Annie looked up at him quickly.

“How is Harry? He is not anxious for my return, I suppose?”

“Oh, to think of your being his wife is intolerable! He is not worthy
to look at you. Sometimes he is sorry, in a maudlin sort of way, that
he can’t see you, and complains that you have deserted him, and that
you are the only woman he ever cared about. But that is all nonsense,
and he says it only when he is drunk. He drinks worse than Wilfred.
And a few months ago----Well, never mind that! You mustn’t trouble your
head any more about him.”

Annie listened in silence, her heart aching with remorse. She knew
well enough now that she had done irretrievable wrong in leaving her
husband, whom at least she could, at the entire sacrifice of herself,
have kept from this. But it was too late now, she told herself. If she
returned to him now unbidden, with the feeling of repulsion toward him
a thousand-fold stronger than ever, she could not expect a welcome, she
could not even repress the disgust she felt.

She told William that she was going to leave town and travel with a
theatrical company, to gain experience in better parts than she could
hope to play in London yet. He walked all the way home with her, and,
looking at her gravely as he stood saying the last words to her, he
complained that she was thin and pale.

“Do you know, Annie, you are so much altered I should hardly have known
you. You have lost all your pretty color, and your eyes are not half so
bright as they used to be. It is all that beast Harry, making you have
to work for your living!” he broke out, passionately. “He deserves to
be kicked!”

“Come, be reasonable, William; that is not Harry’s fault. Women must
expect to ‘go off’ in looks, you know, as they grow older.”

“But you are not old. That is nonsense.”

“I am two-and-twenty. When you last saw me, I was not nineteen.”

“Well, you ought not to have changed so much in less than three years.
Never mind,” added he affectionately, seeing that his words seemed to
depress his sister-in-law--“I love you just as much as ever; and you
will soon get back your color when you get out of London and forget all
about Harry again.”

And he kissed her and bade her good-bye most unwillingly; for the
following morning he had to go back to the Elms, to see George about
the expenses of a “coach” to cram him for the examination he would have
to go through.

Annie went up-stairs to her rooms--she could afford to have a
sitting-room now--feeling ashamed of the pain his remarks upon her
looks had given her. It was a fact she had known for a long time now,
that her beauty had fallen off, so that there were barely traces of
it left. A thin, brown face, without a tinge of pink in the cheeks,
and with scarcely more than a tinge in the lips, eyes from which the
brightness of hope and joy had gone, and a weary, worn expression,
were what less than three years of lonely work and disappointment had
left of her youthful prettiness. No woman, and especially an actress,
can suffer the sense of lost beauty to be suddenly brought home to her
without a pang, and Annie’s vanity was strong enough to make her cry at
William’s evident regret.

“Perhaps Harry himself would not know me,” she thought to herself, “and
would be disgusted if I were pointed out to him as his wife.”

So she cried herself to sleep.

When William arrived at the Elms next day, he was even less inclined
than usual to meet his brother Harry on friendly terms. For he looked
upon the latter as being the cause of Annie’s exile--so he chose to
consider her voluntary flight--and therefore as the cause also of all
her struggles and the terrible alteration in her looks. So the lad
avoided his brother as much as he could until dinnertime, when there
was no help for their coming in contact with each other, as their
places were set side by side. An unlucky accident brought the name of
the half-forgotten wife into the conversation. Wilfred rallied his
youngest brother, who had not been at the Elms for some time, upon
being “so confoundedly abstemious.”