Taking no further notice of him, Annie proceeded with her dictation.

“Lorsque Telemaque et ses compagnons--virgule----”

“Oh, confound your French!” growled Harry.

And William burst into a roar of laughter; while Annie, seeing that her
amiable husband had started up with evil intentions toward her pupil,
made signs to the latter to leave the room, which he did, exploding
again as soon as he got outside the door.

“Why do you encourage that donkey to take up your time?” asked Harry,
when he had exhausted all the offensive epithets at his command on his
youngest brother.

“I am very fond of William,” said Annie, quietly. “It was I who first
encouraged him to study; and now it is a great pleasure to me to help
him.”

“A fine lot of study you get through, I have no doubt! You were
studying very hard when I came in, weren’t you?”

“Now look here, Harry; you are absurdly unreasonable,” said Annie,
wearily. “Of course William and I don’t sulk through a long morning’s
work, as if I were a snuffy old professor of fifty who didn’t care a
straw about his pupil except as a mere learning-machine. I couldn’t
care for William more if he were really my brother. You never used to
complain when he and I were out in the fields and woods together all
day long. He was my constant companion when I was very miserable and
lonely; and am I to snub and sit upon him, now that he has taken to
reading so that he may be more of a companion to me than ever?”

“What do you want with his companionship? I can’t think what you can
see in a great, clumsy gawk like that. He isn’t even clever.”

“He is good-tempered, and--he is fond of me.”

“Much you care about anybody’s being fond of you! You are the coldest
woman I ever saw, and all your pretty--I mean all your affected little
ways are just acting. Yes, that is what they are--just acting!”
repeated Harry, as if struck by a happy idea.

“Very well, Harry. Then why don’t you let me go and act on the stage,
where I shall get applauded instead of worried about it?”

“Because I don’t choose to let you go,” said he doggedly. “And I don’t
choose to see myself slighted and treated as if I were nobody at all,
just for that great ignorant, ill-mannered boy. And I won’t allow any
more of these humbugging lessons--do you hear?”

“I hear you certainly,” answered Annie softly.

“That means that you won’t obey me, I suppose?” She did not reply.

“Very well then; I sha’n’t say any more,” said Harry, shaking with
passion; “but, when I find him again grinning at you over his copy-book
and swaggering about with his French, I shall just pitch his books and
his tomfoolery into the fire and punch his head for him.”

“That will be very wise,” remarked Annie gravely. “And, if you were
only to treat in the same way every other person who can talk to me on
subjects that interest me and who does not grumble at me from morning
till night, I am sure I should become a much better wife and a much
more entertaining companion for yourself.” She had risen and walked
toward the door.

“Where are you going?” asked Harry sharply.

“To meet Lilian at the station. You know she is coming to-day, and
Stephen with her.”

He let her go without further comment; but, when she came down-stairs
again, ready to start, she found him in the hall playing with a
hunting-crop.

“I say, Annie, are you going to the library at Beckham?”

“Yes.”

“Will you get some books for me?”

“For you!” said his wife, in amazement.

“Yes, for me”--very irritably.

“Oh, yes, certainly! What books shall I get?”

“Oh, anything you like!”--and, without looking at her, he marched off
into the billiard-room.