Four o’clock came, and still Annie waited for her husband. He had
promised so seriously, so many times, not to be later than that hour
that her impatience grew quickly into anxiety as the time passed and
still he did not appear. At half-past four, just as she was deciding
that she could wait no longer, that she must go to Stephen’s lodging
and find out what had detained him, she heard a knock at the door,
which, however, she recognized, to her bitter disappointment, not as
Harry’s but George’s. He had brought William to see her, that young
soldier having just arrived in town, and being mad to have a glimpse
of his old play-fellow, and tell her how well he was getting on in his
profession.

Poor Annie could give but a mechanical show of interest to the young
fellow’s eager outpourings, and at last she broke down.

“William, I cannot listen now,” she said, with tears in her eyes.
“You know it is not for lack of interest; but----George,” she cried
suddenly, turning to her elder brother-in-law, “Harry has gone to see
Stephen, angrier than I ever saw him before. I can’t tell you why now.
But Harry and I are reconciled. It seems you knew all about his being
at Kirby Park. You might have told me! And he promised to be with
me at four o’clock,” she went on, growing more and more excited and
incoherent. “You see it is a quarter to five, and he is not here! He
was very angry; and I am afraid something has happened. I must go and
see!”

There was no restraining her. In ten minutes they were all three on the
way to Stephen’s lodging. As they approached the house, George caught
sight of something from the cab-window which made him turn suddenly to
his sister-in-law and advise her to return while he went in and spoke
to Harry.

She saw the alarm in his eyes, and, steadying herself to speak calmly,
she refused. So the cab stopped; and then Annie saw that there was a
rough crowd outside the house and a policeman keeping the people away
from the door. George sprung out; but she followed so closely behind
him that she caught the policeman’s answer to his low-voiced question:

“What is the matter?”

“Man shot, I believe, sir.”

Annie kept quite still, quite calm, while George induced the policeman
to let them pass in; and, as soon as the door was opened, she slipped
past her brother-in-law, who had not known she was so close, and flew
first up the stairs, swiftly and silently as a bird.

“He has broken his word to me,” she thought in agony. “He has scattered
all our happiness; and now----Oh, where is he? I dare not go in!
Perhaps already they have led him away to--prison. Oh, Harry, Harry!”

She was standing outside the door of the sitting-room, which was shut.
She seemed to hear a noise of low voices: but she was not sure that it
was not the singing in her own ears. At last, with cold, weak fingers,
she turned the handle and went in.

The only figure in the room was that of the cripple, lying motionless
on the sofa.

Brought thus abruptly into what she believed to be the presence of a
dead man, Annie tottered to the table for support, her face white and
damp with horror; but Stephen turned, raised his head and confronted
her; and she gave a low cry of relief when she saw that he was alive.

“Then Harry has not hurt you?” she whispered falteringly.

“No,” said the cripple, “it was not he. You will never forgive me,
Annie; you will hate me. I shot him!”

Annie did not cry this time, did not even start; she stood tapping with
her fingers upon the table, struck suddenly into utter numbness. She
did not feel his trembling hands clinging to her mantle as he fell at
her feet and implored her to speak to him, to scold him, and not to
stand before him as if his words had killed her. She did not hear the
door of the bedroom open or feel the touch of a stranger’s hand. But
the new-comer was a doctor; and, when she woke presently from the sort
of stupor which had seized her, he said, quietly:

“Now, Mrs. Braithwaite, if you will remain calm, you shall see your
husband.”

“I am calm,” she said, simply.

She could not have cried, or moaned, or lamented her fate, if her life
had depended upon her showing some emotion.

So he led her into the next room; and there, not dead, but sitting in
a faded chintz arm-chair, with his left arm bound up, was Harry. It was
then that her calmness gave way. She was not very demonstrative indeed
over the passion of joy which lit up and transfigured her whole face;
but she fell upon her knees by the side of his chair, shaking from head
to feet.