“Because--because I couldn’t help it--because I must do what you tell
me, in spite of myself. Oh, Lilian, can you reproach me with what I do
for you?”

“I am not reproaching you, you dear old, silly boy! I was thanking you,
when you suddenly began to scold me. I trust you more than anybody else
in the world; you know I do.”

“Then why don’t you trust me entirely, and tell me whom the letters are
from? You know I would never betray you. You know that, whoever it was,
I would do for you then all that I do now, and more--if that could be.”

“Why don’t you tear them open and see? They all pass through your
hands.”

“I would if they were any one’s letters but yours. But your wishes are
sacred to me--they are, indeed, and, if I were to do that, you would
never speak to me again.”

“Well, to judge from the way you reproach me, that would be a very good
thing.”

“No, Lilian, no, no! Be cruel to me as you like; but don’t talk of
casting me aside like that. What more can I do for you than I have
done? What----”

They heard his voice in passionate protest long after the words
themselves were lost, as the sound of the crutches, following Lilian
toward the house, grew fainter on the pathway. The interest Annie and
William had taken in the mice was quite gone. They still stood opposite
to each other in the deepening dusk; but for some minutes after the
voices had become inaudible they could not find a word to say. At last
William broke the silence.

“I say, Annie, what on earth do you think Lilian is up to?”

“I don’t know; I can’t think!”

“It can’t be all square, you know. I wonder who it is that is writing
to her? However, she always was full of tricks, and it is no good
saying anything. I shall just hold my tongue about it; wouldn’t you?”

“Yes, certainly. We can’t do anything to stop it, and we heard it all
by accident. We should only make everybody angry with her and she----”

“Would swear we have told lies, and Stephen would back her up.”

“And we shouldn’t prevent her getting her own way even then,” said
Annie, sorrowfully.

She had a shrewd suspicion who the unknown correspondent was, and an
incident which occurred a little later confirmed it.

Meanwhile the quiet outdoor country life she led, always driving, or
walking, or playing some game of their own invention with William,
had rapidly restored to her beauty the bloom that unhappiness and
_ennui_ had begun to rob it of. George took the most notice of this
improvement, and Harry the least. Yet even the latter was not quite
insensible to the change for the better in his wife’s good looks, and
told her one day, with rough good-humor, that married life seemed to
agree with her, though she did not seem to appreciate what it had done
for her. Annie answered with a rather ironical laugh. It seemed to her
that the appreciation ought to be on the other side.

For he remained one of the most careless and selfish of husbands, while
she fulfilled her duty to him with an exactness which got no thanks
from him. She was his slave in little things, and never asked for the
smallest service or attention in return. Perhaps Wilfred was right when
he suggested that she would rather be without it. However that might
he, he was as free to go where he pleased and do as he pleased as in
his bachelor days, while he alone, of all these young men, never had
to hunt for things he had mislaid, never had to cry out for a missing
button, and had his scanty correspondence done for him much better than
he could have done it for himself.

William once humbly expressed a wish that she would get the servants
to look after his hunting-things as she did for Harry. But she only
laughed at him.

“Well,” said William, rather aggrieved, swinging his legs backward and
forward from the gate on which they were sitting together, “I do ever
so many more things for you than Harry does.”

“Ah, but then he is my husband!” returned she, offering him an apple.

“I say, Annie, you don’t like Harry, do you?” he asked, mysteriously,
after a pause.

“Of course I do! How can you ask me such a question?” said the outraged
wife indignantly.