“And what excuse have you heard from the woman who was the cause of the
inconstancy?”

Annie’s cheeks flushed as she still looked steadily at the fire. He
was taking her to account for her treatment of himself. After a few
moments’ hesitation she answered, in a light tone:

“You are talking too vaguely; put before me a clear case of a woman
having done wrong to a man, which forced him to seek relief in
inconstancy, and I will plead her cause and confound you.”

“Very well. Suppose that a man had admired and shown his admiration
of a woman who had rather reserved manners to most people. Suppose
that her reserve with him had gradually given way, until she allowed
him to be her constant companion, treated him with at least the show
of complete confidence, exchanged opinions freely with him on every
subject, and allowed her apparent preference for his society to be
taken for granted.”

“Did she allow him to make love to her?”

“No, she did something more dangerous; she allowed him to make love to
every woman but her. He was too much in earnest to flirt with her, and
she must have known it.”

“I think that is an absurd conclusion to come to, that the woman must
have known he loved her because he didn’t tell her so. If women were to
go by such a rule in all cases----”

“But listen. At last one day--or rather one November night--he did let
her know in words that he loved her, and she--she made him think that
his words agitated her.”

“Perhaps they did--perhaps they agitated her disagreeably. They must
have done so, if she was unprepared for them as you have made out.”

“But later on she gave him an unmistakable proof that her liking and
trust were as strong as ever. And then again she avoided him; and,
when he insisted on an interview and an explanation, she put him off
by telling him there was an obstacle between them, but still without
telling what that obstacle was.”

“What did it matter what it was, as long as it was insurmountable? That
was all that could concern him.”

“He ought to have been told what it was, so that at least he might not
be left to think that it was merely an excuse to get rid of a man of
whom she had grown tired. But she had another surprise in store for
him; she disappeared without letting him know what had become of her.”

“And he has spent his time ever since in a vain and romantic pursuit of
her?”

“Oh, dear, no! He went back to town, furnished a new set of chambers,
and has grown more particular about his cooking.”

“And you hold him up as an object of sympathy? He is a man to whom an
offer of sympathy would be an impertinence.”

“He does not want sympathy, but justice; and, if he cannot get that,
he will have revenge--and melodramatic revenge, of course, but small,
spiteful, mean, and modern!”

“I don’t think such a threat would frighten her from you.”

“You are trying to pique me.”

“I! Oh, no! What interest can I have in the matter?”

“Can you give me your assurance that you have none?”

The sudden intensity of his manner would have forced some show of
emotion from Annie if she had not been on her guard.

“I take an interest in the affairs of any friend who has shown me as
much kindness as you have, Mr. Cooke,” said she, gravely, and with a
little stiffness.

Aubrey was silent for a few minutes.

“Thank you!” he said, dryly, after clearing his throat two or three
times.

Annie felt that the conversation had got to a difficult point, and, to
avoid the awkwardness of the pause which followed, she rose. He rose
too.

“I have intruded upon you too long, Miss Langton; you must want rest
and quiet after your long journey,” said he, in a casual-visitor’s
tone, which deceived Annie until she saw by the fading daylight that he
was as pale as death, and that his lips were quivering.