XIX.


“Let me stay here! Don’t send me away!” were Harry’s first words, as
his wife led him to a chair and supported his head against her breast.

“Yes, yes, you shall stay. Oh, Harry, what have you done? You are
drenched to the skin and cold as ice! Where are you hurt? Is it only
here?”

She touched his forehead, from a cut in which the blood was still
flowing.

“That is all--I think,” said he, drowsily. “But I’m--cold.”

He was shivering violently. She rang the bell for assistance; but
it was too late to avert the consequences of that night’s work, and
before morning the fever was back upon him. It was impossible to
learn from him how it had happened. When his mind wandered, he talked
disconnectedly of herself, sometimes tenderly, sometimes angrily and
jealously, but always of her. Annie sat up by him all night, and in the
morning, with softened tread and pale, downcast, anxious face, Lilian
crept in. He did not know her--he did not know any one.

“Go and get some rest now, Annie; I will watch by him,” she whispered.

“Why, Lilian, you look as if you had sat up all night, too! What is the
matter with you?”

Lilian did not answer for a minute, but stood watching the restless
movements of her sick brother; and, when she turned again to Annie, her
proud gray eyes were full of tears.

“I may as well tell you now, for you are sure to learn it as soon as
poor Harry comes back to his senses--if he ever does.”

She paused, and the other listened curiously for her confession, for a
confession she felt sure it was that she had to hear.

She was right; for Lilian went on:

“Annie, you must not despise the poor fellow any more. He can act like
a man if he can’t speak like a professor. If it had not been for him, I
should have run away last night with--Colonel Richardson.”

“Oh, Lilian!”

“Don’t interrupt me,” went on the other hurriedly--“I may not
feel inclined for confession again. I was to meet him--Colonel
Richardson--at the lower gate. Well, Harry was there.”

“But how was that?”

“He thought it was you who were going off.”

“I!”

“Yes, yes, he did. I know whose doing that was. Stephen had guessed or
found out something, and not having the pluck to stop me himself, and
not wanting a general row, he got Harry to suppose it was you who were
going off with----”

“But Harry would never have believed that I----”

“Why not?” said Lilian, in a hard tone. “Have you returned his
affection for you so very warmly as to make it impossible for him to
think that you cared for any one but him? However, it is not for me
to reproach you, especially on the score of want of wifely devotion.
When he found it was I, Harry tried to drag me away; but I struggled to
escape from him, and told him not to interfere with me. He would not
let me go, and I told him----You will be shocked, Annie, but I loved
the man--I do now--and I was desperate. I asked Harry how he could be
sure he was not too late. And he looked me straight in the face very
steadily, so that I felt awfully ashamed of myself, and he said, ‘I may
not be in time to save your character, but at least I will save your
reputation.’ And for a moment I stood quite still, hesitating, while
he still held my arm. He had a revolver in his other hand. Before I
spoke again, Herbert--Colonel Richardson sprung forward, snatched the
revolver from him, and struck him in the face with it, while he tried
to pull me away. But Harry never let go, and that decided me. I told
Herbert he was a coward to strike a man hardly recovered from illness,
and that I would not go with him. Harry, poor fellow, could not have
kept me back then; I had to support him; and I led him back here, and
we slipped into the house; and he begged me to bring him to your door,
and go to my room, and no one should know anything about it, if I would
promise never to try to go off again. I didn’t promise--I hadn’t time;
but I never will, all the same. And, Annie, he is worth loving. Do
try to love him back! Oh, you would if you knew what it is to have a
husband who is a monument of all the virtues, but a monument in stone!”