However, the coffee was made at last, and of course Aubrey said it was
the only time he had tasted good coffee out of Paris; and, the landlady
not having yet returned, though the afternoon was drawing to a close,
Annie was rising to put away some of the things, when Aubrey stopped
her.

“Don’t be so wrong-headed as to save that unprincipled old lady
trouble,” said he. “Besides, I dare say she will stay away till about
nine o’clock, and we shall want the things again for tea.”

Annie made a grimace.

“Then we shall have to wash them up.”

“That is very simple. Put them all in the sink and turn the tap on.”

He was suiting the action to the word when Annie stopped him.

“Well, don’t let us go away then, because the fire might go out, and
then poor Mrs. Briggs might find it cold when she comes back,” said he,
with unexpected solicitude.

He did not want to break up this _tête-à-tête_, in which Annie, for the
first time, had been in her most charming, happiest mood with him.

“Do stay,” he said coaxingly. “Let us tell each other stories by the
firelight. I’ll begin; I’ll tell you a beauty that I made up myself,
all about ogres and a good little girl and a bad little girl.”

He was patting Mrs. Briggs’ rocking-chair persuasively, and at last
Annie allowed herself to fall into it, while Aubrey went on in a
chirping tone:

“There was once a very dreadful ogre as bad as he was ugly--he had a
mouth as big as mine--and he had for his play-fellows and companions
all the bad little boys and girls in the neighborhood; but of course
the good boys and girls ran away as soon as they saw him, especially
one little girl who felt quite sure that he would eat her up if she
spoke civilly to him. So she was always as distant as she could be,
and sometimes made the poor ogre quite uncomfortable, which of course
was quite right and proper; until one day she met the poor ogre when
somebody had stolen his dinner--and hers too, by the way--and instead
of eating her up as she expected, he did his best to make himself as
agreeable as circumstances would permit; and----What are you laughing
at, Miss Langton?”

“I was laughing at something I was thinking about, Mr. Cooke. You can’t
expect me to keep my attention fixed on your idiotic nursery stories.”

“Oh! And so at last the good little girl got quite saucy; and--I really
must beg you to restrain your mirth at your own private thoughts, Miss
Langton. It is not courteous when a gentleman is doing his best to
be entertaining--and instructive as well. To resume. And so the ogre
wondered to himself whether the good little girl would feel quite sure
for the future that he didn’t want to eat her up, and whether she would
think he was not such a bad fellow after all and not half a bad cook at
a pinch. That is all, Miss Langton, unless you would like the moral.”

“Let us have the moral, by all means, if you can find one in all that
tissue of nonsense.”

“I pass over your impertinent comments in silence. The moral is----What
have I done to make you dislike me so much, Miss Langton?”

“I don’t understand you, Mr. Cooke. If I disliked you, should I have
devoted all my energies, as I have done this afternoon, to preparing
your dinner and being to you all that Mrs. Briggs ever was and
more--for she never gives you coffee after dinner?”

“Your civility to me to-day has been dictated by the purest
selfishness. If it had not been for me you would have had to go out and
buy your own dinner, and you would not have known which side of the
gridiron to hold. I repeat, without me you would have been a forlorn,
dinner-less woman. Look here--there is no making a bargain with a
lady, because she can always cry off when she likes. But if you would
only believe that nothing would give me so much pleasure as to be able
to render you any service at any time, and that your reserve really
does hurt sometimes, I should be so glad of having had this chance of
telling you so.”

He got shy against the end of this speech; and Annie turned toward him
a face which looked very sweet as well as pretty in the fire light.

“I do believe it,” she said, simply. “And I promise you that for the
future you shall not only not have to complain of my reserve, but you
may think yourself lucky if you do not have to check my forwardness.”

“Madam, my innate dignity will awe you sufficiently,” said Aubrey
haughtily.