“Thank you. It is very clever of you to snub me like that; and I dare
say you think, if I had any proper pride, I ought to go away after you
have so plainly let me know how my vulgar stable-talk bores you. But I
sha’n’t,” continued Harry, doggedly. “I was foolish to let you go away
from me, and I was foolish to come after you; but, now I am here, I
mean to stop.” And he flung himself down into a chair.

“You mean to stay here!”

“Yes; and, when I go away, I mean to take you with me.”

“Oh, indeed! Against my will?”

“I hope not--not if what you said to me a little while ago is true,
Annie;” and he leaned forward on his elbows, with such wistful
earnestness in his face and voice that his wife was forced to listen.
“You say you are not fond of anybody else, you say nobody else has been
making love to you, and you tell me I’m so handsome that I need not be
afraid of anybody else. Well, if all that is true, and I’m such a nice,
good-looking fellow, and you are so anxious to cling to my arms and
caress me and introduce me to your friends, why on earth, as soon as I
turn up, do you want to be rid of me again?”

“I don’t want to be rid of you. But I am not going to be treated like a
child, as if I could not be trusted alone.”

“Well, I don’t think any woman can, when she has a husband whose duty
it is to look after her.”

“Oh, your opinion of a husband’s duty was not always so high, I think!”

“No, it wasn’t. But I am all the more bound to fulfill it well now,
when I have neglected it so long. Annie, don’t be hard. Why did you
come to me when I had got used to being without you, if you only meant
to show me what a brute I was, and then repulse me when I tried, for
your sake, to be something better? You don’t know how you have hurt
me this afternoon by showing me how sorry you were to see me again; I
don’t think I ever felt so knocked over as when, after I had met that
fellow and knew who he was--for I’m not such a booby as you suppose,
and I knew you liked that ugly Maypole better than me--you just said
‘Harry!’ without a smile or the least sign of pleasure when you saw me.
I felt as if you had stuck a knife into me.”

He stopped for a few moments, his voice all husky.

“And then see how good I’ve been to you! I’ve never even said a harsh
word to you, though I know many husbands who would have said horrid
things to their wives if they had caught them like that. But I swore to
William that I would be very gentle to you, even if you were not glad
to see me. I don’t know what made him guess you wouldn’t be; but I’ll
just punch his head for being so clever when I get back. And haven’t I
kept my word? If I had been so clever as these men you know, who can
do everything, I should have been sarcastic; and, instead of that, I
have let you be sarcastic, and I haven’t even sworn at you;” and Harry
looked up at his wife pleadingly, yet proudly, as if the force of
conjugal affection and manly self-restraint could no further go.

“Harry, indeed I am glad to see you, and sorry you are still so thin. I
should have told you so long ago if you had let me. But you made such a
furious onslaught upon me at once.”

“Very well then; we’ll let by-gones be by-gones, and you shall
come back with me, and we’ll be as happy as crickets,” said he,
affectionately, as he jumped up from his chair and was on his knees
beside her, with his arm round her, in a minute.

“But, Harry, I can’t do that. I am under an engagement now which I am
bound to fulfill. And, remember, we were not at all like happy crickets
when we were at the Grange together.”

“No, the Grange is a beastly old place, and nobody could be happy
there; I don’t wonder you got moped,” he answered, hastily. “Now in
town it is different. There is so much to be done in London, such a lot
to be seen, so--so many books and--and picture-galleries and pretty
dresses and clever people.”

“But you don’t care for those things, Harry.”

“Yes, I do--at least, I shall when I’ve been with you a little while.
And I’ve quite taken to reading, and----Oh, I shall get on capitally!”

“But what would you do without your dogs and your horses, Harry?”

“Do you think I can’t get on without dogs and horses,” said he
impatiently. “I suppose you think I can’t be happy unless I am loafing
about a stable with my inferiors--only you wouldn’t call them my
inferiors!”

“How silly you are, Harry! When have I said anything like that to you?”