Wilfred turned to his brother.

“Why the dickens did you badger the boy like that? He’ll only go and
let off his ill-temper on poor little Annie, and perhaps take to
proving his authority with his fists or his boots, the hulking bully!”

“Well, the sooner he does, and disgusts her thoroughly, and makes her
throw him over altogether, the better for her.”

Wilfred looked at his brother keenly.

“I say, George, you’re not playing square.”

“Yes, I am; you don’t know the game;” and the baronet lounged out of
the stable-yard with his hands in his pockets, but with teeth so firmly
set that he bit his cigar in two.

Dinner that evening began quietly enough. There was a lull in the
hostilities between the young men, Harry being sullen, Wilfred rather
sleepy, and George giving all his attention to Lilian, who was in her
most brilliant mood, talking, laughing, teasing her eldest brother, and
delighting him by her archness; only one person at the table noticed
how feverishly bright her eyes were, and the nervous play of her
delicate fingers when she was not speaking. For Stephen never took his
eyes off her; he drank scarcely anything and ate nothing. Annie was
pale to the lips, and the sound of Harry’s voice made her start. Only
Lady Braithwaite and William were quite their usual selves.

“So this is the last Christmas I am to spend as Miss Braithwaite!” said
Lilian. “I wonder how I shall like married life.”

“Ask Annie how she likes it,” suggested George.

The young wife did not look up; but all could see that a shiver passed
over her slight form. Harry made a restless movement on his chair.

“Confound her!” William, who sat next, heard him mutter; and the boy’s
blood took fire. Wiser than George or Wilfred in the interests of his
play-fellow, however, he said nothing, and clinched his hands together
under the table to keep himself from punching his brother’s head.
Such acts as that had not been unknown in past times at the Grange
dinner-table, and a repetition of them seemed perilously near.

When they at last came into the drawing-room after dinner, after
sitting an unusually long time over their wine, Annie was seated--it
almost seemed that she was hidden--in the shadow of one of the
window-curtains close to the conservatory. Lady Braithwaite was happily
dozing as usual, and Lilian was flitting about the room, more animated,
more restless than usual. She looked at her brothers searchingly
as they came in, they were all talking and laughing loudly and
discordantly. Stephen was the only one perfectly sober, and he, white
to the lips and silent, was more excited than they. He watched Lilian
with glistening eyes full of fear and anxiety.

She had scarcely listened to half a dozen sentences of her brothers
when she left them and crossed the room.

“Where are you going? We want you to play something.”

“I think you can amuse yourselves better without me to-night,” she
said, with playful insolence--“at least for the present. I’ll come down
presently, when I’ve finished my letter to Aunt Constantia, and give
you ‘John Peel.’”

She calculated upon their having found some other means of passing the
time long before they thought of her again; and, before they could stop
her, she had left the room. The little black figure in the shadow of
the curtain sprung up, and was at the door to follow her example, when
Harry’s voice thundered:

“Annie, stop where you are!”

But for once she took no notice, and she was turning the handle when he
sprung forward and stumbled over a footstool. George laughed. William
darted across the room to Annie, and, holding the door open, said:

“Go, dear--quick!”

But the power to do so had gone from the frightened woman’s limbs. She
hesitated. In that one moment Harry had recovered himself, and, just as
William was giving her a gentle little push, her husband reached them,
and, seizing Annie’s arm roughly, swung her round into the middle of
the room again.

There came a sullen imprecation from the lips of every other man in the
room, and William, with a howl of rage, felled his staggering brother
like an ox to the ground. Wilfred, sober for the moment, turned to the
wife, who had clasped her hands in fright as she saw her husband fall.

“Go, my child, go!” he said earnestly. “He isn’t hurt. For Heaven’s
sake, go before he gets up!”