It was easy enough by this time to leave some hours in the day
unaccounted for. Harry had met some acquaintances in town and picked
up some others, and spent but little of his time with his wife, who,
he complained, did not take as much trouble to amuse him as at first,
and who could always amuse herself with a book--a most unaccountable
taste in his eyes, so that she could publish an advertisement, answer
others, go for the few replies she got to a neighboring stationer’s,
and give a lesson three times a week in Onslow Square without exciting
his suspicions.

She knew that Lady Braithwaite and her daughter were now in town,
staying with a sister of the former’s at Lancaster Gate, but, as she
would have thought nothing less likely than that they should take
any notice of her, she stood for a moment in the doorway in silent
astonishment when, coming into her sitting-room, after having given a
music-lesson, she found Lilian, looking superbly handsome in her deep
mourning, walking about examining the pictures and ornaments.

“I think you must be very comfortable here,” said she, coming forward
and kissing her, as if they had been affectionate friends of long
standing.

Lilian’s manners were charming when she chose, and she was at her best
this afternoon--always queenly, but smiling and willing to be pleased
with anything. She drew her tiny sister-in-law on to the sofa and sat
down beside her. Annie, very glad of this visit, yet hardly daring to
believe that Lilian could have heard of her marriage, scarcely knew
what to say; but the other saved her the trouble of finding a remark.

“I wish we lived like this. These rooms are neither too large nor too
small, while Aunt Constantia’s big rooms are so big that you lose your
way in them, and the small ones are so small that, if the door opens
inside, it scrapes the opposite wall. I am supposed to be still a
child, and therefore of no consequence; so I am put into a nice little
cupboard, so compact that Jennings has to open the door and stand in
the corridor to brush my hair.”

Annie laughed at the picture of self-willed, spoiled Miss Braithwaite
as a victim to neglect, and then asked after Lady Braithwaite.

“Oh, she is quite well, thank you, though of course she hasn’t got over
poor papa’s death yet! You heard all about it from Harry, of course?”

“Yes,” said Annie, wondering at the easy way in which her proud
sister-in-law thus alluded to their new relationship. She was still
more surprised when the other continued:

“It seems so strange to think of Harry as a married man! I suppose he
will think I ought not to box his ears any longer now; but you will
let me, won’t you? I can’t keep him in order in any other way; but I
suppose you can.”

Annie laughed--not very heartily.

“I haven’t tried that plan, certainly. It wouldn’t do for such a little
woman as I am; I think I am too small for him,” she added, as if this
really had struck her suddenly as a grave objection.

Lilian burst out laughing.

“What an odd little creature you are! I have always heard that a
little woman can make a big man as submissive as a dog, and rule him
with a rod of iron, while he thinks all the time that he is the master.
I am sure you would not condescend to obey Harry.”

“Yes, I do,” said the young wife, seriously--“at least; I do the things
he tells me to do; but he doesn’t tell me to do many things.” And the
thought flashed through her mind, “He doesn’t take enough interest in
me to mind what I do.”

“And you don’t ever want to do anything he doesn’t wish you to do?”

“When I do, I do it without telling him about it.”

Lilian was delighted with this speech, which Annie rather regretted
having made.

“I am glad you are not so superhumanly good as I was beginning to fear.
Don’t you find him very dull company? He can hardly write his own name,
he can’t spell a bit, and he can talk about nothing but horses and
guns.”

Annie would not own that she had not enough of her husband’s company to
mind it.

“I don’t want him to read when he is with me, and I haven’t asked him
to spell much. And I like horses myself, though I don’t know much about
them.”

“Well, your life is not so dull as mine, at any rate,” declared Lilian.
“You are a married woman, and can go where you like and with whom you
like; I wish I could,” she added, petulantly.