“You, Aubrey! Thank Heaven!”

“My dear child, who did you think it was?”

“I thought it was that tipsy man!” she whispered, shuddering.

“The clumsy brute didn’t hurt you, my darling, did he, when he ran up
against you? I would have punched his head----”

“No, no, no!” she cried, clinging to him again, in fear of his
returning. “He didn’t hurt me at all; he scarcely touched me. But I
thought it was he who was running after me, and I was frightened.”

“That is all because you were a silly girl and were too proud to let me
see you home. It is a ‘judgment.’ Why, you are shaking all over still!
I didn’t think you were such a little coward!”

He soothed her tenderly, with a very happy remembrance of her delight
in recognizing him, and of the impulsive closing of the little hands
on his arm. He began to think that repulse of a few hours before might
be differently construed; she could not have smiled up more than
gratefully into his face as she was doing now if he had been repugnant
to her. Other women might, but not Annie Langton.

And Aubrey was right. She had felt just what her face expressed, that
the one person in the world whose presence inspired her with perfect
confidence had suddenly appeared at the very moment when she dreaded
the approach of the person she most feared to meet.

For, in the half tipsy man who had staggered down from Miss West’s door
and reeled against her, Annie had instantly recognized her husband.
He had not known her, he had scarcely seen her, for the little figure
had flown past almost before he had recovered his balance; but in the
first moment of terror, Annie imagined that he had seen, known, and was
pursuing her.

She walked on with Aubrey very quietly, very silently, her hand on his
arm and his hand on hers, listening to his gentle, playful scolding
with a little laugh now and then, but without speaking much, satisfied
that she was safe with him, and that she need not talk to show him
that she felt so. When they came to her door, she disengaged her hand
and held it out while bidding him “Good-night” with a smile that made
Aubrey bold. He took her hand in his, passed his other arm round her,
saying, in a quick, jerky whisper:

“Annie, you do--you will trust yourself to me, won’t you?”

There was no eloquence in his speech; but for once his light eyes
spoke very plainly, his voice broke into tenderness. Annie trembled.
Her eyes, as they met his, shone with a light he had never seen in
them before. But before he could speak again, before he could draw her
into his arms, the light had faded. She gave him one look so wildly,
unutterably sad that he never forgot it; then, with bent head, she
slipped gently out of the grasp of his arm and turned to the door. She
could not see the lock, for the tears were gathering in her eyes. After
a few moments, Aubrey, who had stood behind her without speaking, took
the key from her shaking hand and opened the door for her.

“Thank you, Aubrey. Good-night,” said she, in a quavering voice,
without looking up.

“Good-night, darling!” he whispered back, managing to give one last
despairing squeeze to the little fingers before she shut the door.

He went home to his lodgings utterly bewildered, but resolved to get
from her the next day some explanation of her extraordinary treatment
of his advances. She had certainly understood him. She had at first
repelled, then encouraged him. He had seen in her eyes the very look he
had wished to call up in them, and the next minute it had changed to an
expression of plaintive misery and regret which had chilled his hopes
even as they rose.

But the next day, when he called upon her, he was told Miss Langton was
not well, and could not see any one. He knew very well that she was
only putting him off, and he made up his mind that at night she should
not escape him. She took care however not to be caught alone, and her
share in the performance was nearly over before Aubrey, always on the
watch, saw Miss Montrose, who had been standing at the side with her,
go upon the scene at her cue and leave Annie by herself at last. Then
she heard his voice behind her; she could not escape now, for before
long she would hear her own cue, and must be on the watch for it.

“Good-evening, Miss Langton.”

“Oh, good-evening, Mr. Cooke!” She gave him her hand; it was trembling
a little, and she did not look up into his face.

“I have not had an opportunity of speaking to you before. You will let
me see you home?”