VIII.


Annie did not find life at the Elms such a miserable affair as she
had expected. That first evening the key-note was struck of the
conduct of each member of the family toward her. Lady Braithwaite
continued to treat her with distant coldness, or affected to ignore her
entirely. Lilian followed suit, except at odd moments of capricious
good humor, when she would treat her like a pretty child to be
teased and caressed. George was kind, but instinct made her shun
_tête-à-têtes_ with him. She did not see much of Wilfred,
who used to tell her that she made him ashamed of himself and promise
to reform. He even went so far as to attend a temperance-meeting in the
village, where, he declared afterward, that he heard a lot of things
which were very true, and where he signed the pledge without being
asked, in the hope of pleasing her; he was not quite sober at the time.
When on his return home he went straight to the sideboard and mixed
himself some whisky-and-water, Stephen reminded him of his vow; but
Wilfred only said, softly: “Hang the pledge!” and went to bed in the
same state as usual.

Stephen scarcely spoke to her. She soon found out that his admiration
of Lilian, which she had noticed on her first visit to Garstone Grange,
had grown into a mad passion which the object of it was not slow to
make use of. He was her slave; she might snub him, torment him, hurt
his sensitive feelings; nothing could change his devotion to her, which
was very touching to Annie, who knew how hopeless his passion was,
and that the handsome girl used her crippled lover only as a tool and
a toy. For Lilian was a headstrong, willful girl, more difficult to
manage than her mother and brothers guessed.

She had commissions to give her cousin which nobody else knew of,
letters which she had to coax him to post, and answers to them which
had to come under cover to him. And the poor young fellow never
faltered in his allegiance, but, after a stormy war of words with her,
which she knew how to end with a careless kiss brushed across his
burning forehead, he always gave way; and her little secrets, whatever
they might be, remained as safe as if no one but herself in the
household knew of them.

One of these secrets, and perhaps the most important, had a narrow
escape of being revealed one evening, however, when Annie and her
constant companion, William, were standing still as statues in the
large, wire-faced house where the rabbit-hutches were kept, amusing
themselves by watching the mice play about, and finally run into the
traps they had prepared for them.

This was a very favorite pastime, always ending in a friendly squabble,
as William wanted to “drown the little pets” and Annie insisted upon
letting “the dear little things have their liberty again.” Finally half
used to be drowned or given to the cat, and half let loose again; and,
if there was an odd one, William tossed up for it.

It was about six o’clock on a November evening that they were standing
breathless with excitement, straining their eyes in the dusk to see
one cautious little mouse running round and round and all but into
the trap, when they heard footsteps outside, but were far too deeply
interested to look round. Presently they heard another sound, and knew
by the noise of the crutches on the ground that it was Stephen who was
approaching. They heard the footsteps of the first comer going to meet
him, and Lilian’s voice saying impatiently:

“What a long time you have been! I thought you were never coming! Is
there one? Give it me--quick, quick!”

“There it is,” said Stephen, sullenly. “What--aren’t you going to give
me a word of thanks, when I went out all the way to Beckham for you
when I was in such pain? Oh, Lilian, have you no heart?”

William and Annie could not see the speakers, though they could hear
every word--could hear too the impatient tearing of an envelope. Then
Lilian’s voice, in a soft, cooing, but only half-attentive tone, said:

“Yes, you are a dear, dear good boy, and my best--friend--in the
world.” Then more quickly. “Just let me finish reading this, there’s a
dear, kind fellow!”

There was a pause, and a heavy sigh from the cripple. Then Lilian spoke
again more brightly:

“Now, I can thank you as you deserve. I feel as happy as a bird, and
all thanks to you,” she added, caressingly.

But Stephen was sullen.

“It is not thanks to me; it is thanks to the man who wrote that
infernal letter! I wish I had died before I brought it to you!”

“Why did you bring it then? Why have you brought me a dozen from the
same person, all under cover to you?”