I whirled and looked back. Where the Caribbean had been there was a
huge sprawl of desert, blinding in the midday sun, stretching away
southward to a semicircle of brooding hills. I judged their crests to
be at least four thousand feet high. And where those crests were, five
minutes before, the Caribbean had been--fully a mile deep under the
stern of the _Odyssey_! Where the _Odyssey_ might now be I hadn't the
slightest idea.

Just before we hit the beach there had been thickets of broad-leaved
squatty trees behind the ridges of sand, into which the marines had
been headed for concealment. Now there was nothing of the kind. There
was nothing but sand and silence--silence so deep that even breathing
broke it into brittle bits.

The three LCVP's were still with us, high and dry on the sand in the
middle of the desert. Each was manned by a coxswain and a radioman.
These six men--they were sailors, of course--were now sitting in their
positions aboard the three crafts, like statues; as if they had been
fossilized by the suddenness of whatever had happened.

At first I thought something was wrong with me. Then the marines became
uncertain, and when marines are uncertain the situation is definitely
out of hand. If I was seeing things that weren't there, so were
seventy-four other marines and six sailors.

Captain Haggerty was giving the "assemble" signal and pointing to me.
Even before he gave it the marines were walking slowly toward me, their
weapons at ready, their eyes taking in all there was to see. I moved
back to the central landing craft.

"My radio is dead," I called. "How about yours?"

"Nothing, sir. They couldn't be deader on Judgment Day!"

I leaned against a corner of the LCVP and waited for the men to
assemble. Nobody said anything. They just looked at me. I felt
helpless.

"First," I said, "let's make a check. I want to be sure I haven't gone
completely daft! If what I say is true, say 'Aye, aye!' Got it?"

"Aye, aye, sir!"

"This is not the Yataritas Beach we all know--apparently!"

"Aye, aye, sir!" the voices were low, hesitant, yet sure.

"The Caribbean has disappeared!"

"Aye, aye, sir!"

"No jets! No APD! No _anything_ we know--except sand!"

"Aye, aye, sir!"

"And we have no communication with anything, anywhere. I've no idea
what we ran into, but it happened just as we hit the beach." I looked
at my watch. "And one more thing. We landed about ten minutes ago, at
nine hundred. The sun says it's nearly thirteen hundred. My watch says
it's oh-nine-twelve exactly."

Officers and men looked at their wrist-watches.

"Aye, aye, sir!" They all agreed to that.

"The sailors are inside the--area--whatever it is, or they would be
gone like everything else except the LCVP's. Somewhere behind the
LCVP's, then, should be--"

But I couldn't say it. Everybody could see that behind the LCVP's was
the unknown desert leading away south to the brooding ancient mountains.

Sergeant Eckstrom strode quickly to the rear of the LCVP's. That took
guts, for he might have disappeared; but he didn't. He walked out onto
the hot desert for twenty yards, turned and came back. That ended that.
We were seeing what actually was there.

"We'll send out scouts," I said, "to the four cardinal points of the
compass. We'll split each quadrant with another scout. That's eight
scouts. Make it sixteen, scout in pairs. Don't get out of sight of the
landing craft. No telling what you may run into."

We officers split the horizon into thirds, set out to reconnoiter.

The sailors flatly refused to leave the LCVP's further than the almost
non-existent shade they cast. It was their way of grasping at something
they could understand. I didn't blame them or argue with them. The
skipper of the APD was their immediate superior. Where _was_ he, anyway?

What had snatched us into this unbelievable Limbo?