Not very hopefully, I gave the command to use the flames again. We
still had tricks in the bag, but if they proved no more effective than
what we had so far used--I shouted my next command:

"Stand by to charge! Hang onto weapons! Go between them! Don't touch
one of the shadows! _CHARGE!_"

I didn't tell the marines to face in any given direction. I merely
wanted as many of them as possible to get through the closing cordon.

With a wild, defiant yell the leathernecks charged. As I ran I looked
for some opening through the concentric circles. If flesh or skin,
clothing or equipment, touched one of the shadows--

It was the queerest ducking and darting game I had ever played. We must
not run into one another, we marines, or we might push one another into
the shadows--and we knew what had happened to Yount, would never forget
it.

It was like trying to dash out through a crowded theater, save that in
a theater you didn't lose your life if you happened to touch anything.

I got through, out behind the last circle of Shadow Men. As soon as I
was clear, in the cool, starlit waste beyond, I turned and looked back.
The circles were still closing, with the LCVP's in their approximate
center. To my right and left other marines were emerging from among the
Shadow Men.

I looked, and looked away. Some of my own marines were a sight to turn
the stomach. It's hell to see an apparently healthy marine standing,
stupidly staring at the skeleton of his arm, to the shoulder.... I saw
no skeletons in the sand after the marines came through and the Shadows
went on. I breathed a sigh of relief. A marine could get along with one
arm, and even the skeleton of the other might have possibilities; but a
dead marine was dead and done.

I turned and looked back at the closing circles of Shadow Men. As the
strange platoon closed in, more and more shadows stepped out of the
circles, to form still more concentric circles.

The middle LCVP happened to be the center of the closing circles. The
first Shadow Man reached it and stopped, right in the LCVP. Others
closed in there--and merged with the first. The Shadow Men were piling
themselves into a black heap within the landing craft.

Still the Shadow Men marched inward, converging on that central spot.
The heap of blackness in the center did not grow larger. It was as
if there were some sort of hole there, into which the shadows were
pouring, like water into a funnel.

The last ring of Shadow Men stepped into the LCVP--and vanished.

Well outside the place of disappearance, looking as if they were
participants in a nightmare, were the marines. Every last officer and
man, with most of our weapons, had got through the cordon of Shadow Men.

It could have been a dream, but for the skeleton of Yount, there by the
LCVP, and the fact that several men had touched the shadows and been
severely injured. Four hands were missing--save for the bones. One man
had lost an ear, but he laughed. "It could have been my whole head!" he
said. "What's an ear?"

"We got through with extraordinarily good luck, sir," said Haggerty.
"What do we do now, sir?"

"What can we do, except wait and see what happens next, Captain?" He
had no answer for that.

Automatically, we buried the skeleton of Yount. First his closest
friends went back to the spot where his body had disappeared, and
hunted for remnants. They didn't find so much as a button of his
uniform or a screw from his weapons, or any part even of the steel
blade of his trench knife. The detached shadow had absorbed everything
of Yount save his bones.

The shadows were, in some fashion, chemical, that seemed clear enough.
But beyond that we were all stuck. They were not human. They were
maneuverable, plainly; but not _self_-maneuverable. Who, then, or what,
controlled and manipulated the Shadow Men?

The Shadow Men, it gave us a shiver to note, left no footprints. Nor
had they in any way affected the landing craft.

After the starlit funeral, we re-formed as we had been before the
sudden appearance of the Shadow Men.

"Mother of God!" cried Krane, the trumpeter. "It's starting again. But
this time it's different!"

We all whirled to look. Coming out of the northwest was a group of
scarecrow figures. They didn't look like our Shadow Men. I didn't
recognize them at first, though I could hear their hoarse panting,
their rasped words. They staggered like men far gone in hunger and
thirst. One of them fell on his face, struggled to his knees, came on.