XIV


“Say, Topham! I’m mighty glad to see you.” Stites, secretary of
legation in Tokio, lifted his wine glass and leaned across the spotless
cloth. “Mighty glad to see you. A glass of wine with you, old man.”

Topham lifted his glass and smiled. “Thank you,” he answered. “It makes
a fellow feel good to be welcomed like this. You people have been
mighty good to me.”

“Oh! Well!” Stites laughed. “We’ll show you the other side of it
tomorrow.”

The two young men sat at a little round table at the English Hotel
where nightly the foreigners and the fashionable world of Tokio dined
and criticized each other’s clothes. Around them were men and women
of all types--Germans, English, a few Americans, fewer French, many
Japanese, some in native dress and others looking strangely awkward
in European garments. Little dark waiters slipped swiftly, though not
hurriedly, through the throng. The hum of conversation, punctuated
by the click of ice on the rims of delicate glasses rose above the
thrumming of the quaint oriental music. The night was heavy with the
perfume of lilies. Far away, through the broad windows, across the
roofs of the city, the bay gleamed silvery in the moonlight.

Topham took it all in. “It’s beautiful,” he said. “Beautiful! I’ve
never been to Japan before and it--well, it’s overpowering.”

“Of course! Everything is, in this country. We’ve got maids at the
embassy--the custom of the country, my boy--that are dreams of
loveliness. Madame l’Ambassadrice objected and to please her I tried to
get ugly ones. Nothing doing, my boy. There aren’t any in Japan--except
those that wear Melican man’s clothes.”

Topham smiled. “I like it,” he said.

“Oh! Do you, indeed! Naturally you would. All sailors do. But look
out, old man. Times aren’t what they used to be. Don’t trust the old
romances on Japan or you’ll get into trouble.”

“I won’t.” Topham stared around him. All about were interesting-looking
men and pretty women. “Who’s that?” he asked. “The tall man at the
table to your right?”

“That’s Cosdon, the British naval attaché! There’s the Spanish attaché
just beyond. Most of the attachés dine here. I’ll introduce you to a
bunch of them after a while. You’ll be the whole works at our shop, you
know. We haven’t had any sort of attaché, navy or army, for six months.
And we’ve needed ’em; needed ’em like the devil.”

“Why?”

“Why what? Why did we need them? Well, you can’t play chess without
pawns. You fellows are the pawns. We diplomats can’t play spy, you
know; but you navy and army men are licensed.”

Topham raised his eyebrows. “Why not use the natives?” he asked; “or
are they too patriotic?”

“Patriotic nothing! That’s all bunkum just like the jiu jitsu. The Japs
are no better than any other nation and I guess they’re a little worse.
They’ve got cowards and traitors just like other people--maybe more
so. But you can’t trust traitors, you know; they won’t stay hitched.
Besides, we need skilled men. The Chief has been cabling to Washington
for attachés for six months, but the cotillions didn’t seem willing
to spare anybody until you came. And they sent you in the end by the
longest way round.”

Topham looked his sympathy. It had been three months since he had left
Berlin. The Nevada, which he had joined at Brindisi, had dawdled along
via Port Said, Aden, and Singapore and had reached Manila just too late
to enable him to catch the swift, direct passenger steamer for Japan
and compelling him to take a much slower and roundabout boat.

“I could have come quicker,” he admitted. “But the Nevada needed a
watch officer, and--”

“And so you spent three months in coming by water instead of ten days
coming by Siberian railway. And all the while the need for you here was
increasing. I understand you speak Japanese, Topham.”

“A little!”

“Only a little?” The secretary was disappointed. “That’s bad--unless
it’s only your beastly polite way of disdaining knowledge. Well! you’ve
got your work cut out for you here! The Japs mean to fight us, and we
have been grossly negligent in preparing for them. We haven’t even
informed ourselves as to the extent of their preparations. The Chief
has done what he could, but it hasn’t been much.”