Coolly the countess studied him. His agitation was welcome. If it
should increase anything was possible. But one cannot argue with a
marble statue. For herself the time of self-betrayal was past. Brain
had usurped the rule of heart, and would maintain itself till the end.

“So you say,” she jeered.

Topham glanced round. The long room was nearly empty, and what
occupants it had were collected at the broad windows staring out into
the street.

“Countess!” he said, swiftly. “I do not know in what plot you are
engaged. I can not conceive what it may be. But I am very certain that
any plot in which Germany and Japan are concerned; any plot that leads
German emissaries to stir up mobs to murder Japanese in San Francisco--”

“It was not murder,” pantingly.

“Was it not? I hope not? But that was the plain intent--”

“No! No! The Japanese knew. They were ordered--” she broke off.

“Of course! I knew that. Colonel Hakodate would not have been there
except under orders. Yet it was murder--”

“No! It was war!”

Topham paused. “Perhaps!” he acquiesced, after an instant. “Perhaps!
Murder seems to me no less murder when done by the orders of an
Emperor. But it is not for me to judge. Nor will I try to question
you--not even about the murder at the door of the Embassy in Berlin.
God knows I shall have enough to tell the President without taking
advantage of your confessions. But anything that can bring about such
occurrences as I have seen tonight is a thing that no officer can keep
from his chief.”

“But--but if I tell you that your President would not be interested?
If I tell you that this is not at all an affair for the United States?
What then? Will you believe me?”

“Believe you? As a man, yes! As an officer of the United States, no. It
is not for me to believe or disbelieve. It is for me to obey. My orders
were to cable what I knew. That means that I am to telegraph any later
information. But, pardon me, the ten minutes are up. I must write my
dispatch and go!”

He turned away, resolutely enough to all appearances. His tones were
even and his manner calm. But the countess guessed that beneath the
mask his heart was storming madly. She knew men, did the countess Elsa!
She had met Topham’s quiet sort before.

With a sudden movement she flung her hand across the telegraph blank.

“In Berlin you asked me to marry you,” she breathed. “Do you still wish
me to do so?”

Topham’s eyes flamed. “Marry me! Marry me!” he groaned. “God knows I
want it more than--more than--”

“Then do not send that message, and I will marry you at once--within
the hour. I will abandon my plans; give up my life work; break my
oath to the dead. I will be yours to do with as you will. Only--only
I ask--Forget what has happened here tonight. Do not wire it! Do not
speak of it! Let it be as if it had never been. Am I not worth it,
beloved? Ah! Don’t you know that I will make up to you for it all?”

Her face was very near his; her glowing eyes beamed into his; the soft
fragrance of her breath fanned his cheeks. But he set his face like
flint.

“No!” he said.

“Then tell the President what you like when you see him. But do not
telegraph.”

“No!”

The countess drew back. “Then,” she said, with a break in her voice.
“Then-- Good-by.”

“Good-by?”

“Good-by--forever. That dispatch will mark the end for you and me. I
beg! I implore you not to send it. But I warn you, too!”

Slowly but decidedly Topham shook his head. “God help me!” he breathed.
“But send it I must!”

Swiftly, as if desiring to put himself beyond the reach of temptation,
he snatched up the pen and scribbled a score of hasty words. Then he
hurried to the clerk’s grating, thrust it in, and turning, staggered
blindly toward the door.