II


Topham was on board the Marlatic in good time the next morning.

He found himself in the midst of a jolly laughing throng that crowded
and pushed and hugged and kissed and wept a little sometimes, but that
the most part gave itself up to a perpetual chattering, like a flock
of magpies--with more noise but with little more sense. All sorts of
people were there, from the brandnew bride on her honeymoon to the
gray old lady who was taking her granddaughter abroad; from the Cook’s
tourist to the blasé young man who talked airily about crossing the
“pond” and the grumpy globe trotter who hated the noise and confusion
with his whole heart.

Topham leaned on the rail of the hurricane deck and watched the crowd
idly. Somehow he felt lonely. Everybody else had friends; he seemed
alone in having no one to see him off. It struck him suddenly that his
life was a very lonely one. If Lillian Byrd had not proved faithless--

His ranging eyes fell upon a girl who was just coming up the plank in
the wake of a granite-faced chaperone, and the current of his thoughts
snapped short off. She was young, scarcely more than twenty, he judged,
but there was something about her--he scarcely knew what--that set his
pulses to pounding. With his whole strength he stared, and, as though
drawn by his glance, the girl suddenly lifted her face and looked
directly at him.

For an instant his heart stood still, then raced as it had never raced
before, not even when Lillian Byrd had smiled at him in days gone by.

Never had he seen such eyes. They held him, enthralled him, with a
magic that went beyond any reasoned process of the human brain. They
seemed to fill the girl’s whole face--to fill it so that Topham thought
he did not notice its other features; though later, he found that he
could picture its every detail--the great masses of red-black hair; the
clear dusky skin with a rose hiding in each cheek; the nose, chin, and
teeth in keeping--not regular, not perfect according to canons of art,
but compelling; a face for which men die.

Recklessly the navy officer stared--stared till the red flamed in the
girl’s cheek, and she stumbled, her trembling fingers loosing their
hold upon the rail.

She must have said something, though Topham could not hear her, for the
hard-faced chaperone turned and caught her arm. Topham saw her shake
her head in negation to some question. The next instant she looked up
once more. But not as before! Coldly her glance swept Topham’s face, as
coldly as if he did not exist. Then, before he could even attempt to
catch her eyes, she had stepped upon the deck and was hidden from his
view.

Topham drew his breath gaspingly. He had been holding it for quite a
minute, unknowingly. His thoughts ran riot. Who was she? Who was she?
What was her race, her state, her name? Her face bespoke a southern
parentage; the blood that burned beneath it cried aloud of tropic heat.
But her blue eyes were of the north. And the chaperone by her side
could be nothing else than German--a veritable grenadier.

Certainly they were people of distinction in their own land--probably
in any land. The purser might know. He would go and ask.

The purser was affable but tremendously busy. Yes, he knew the lady.
She had crossed on the Marlatic a few weeks before. She was a Senorita
Elsa Ferreira, a Brazilian lady who was connected with a famous German
family. The lady with her was the Baroness Ostersacken. If Mr. Topham
wanted any more information, he would endeavor to oblige him later on.
At the present moment, however, in the hurry of departure, he--

Topham thanked him and went on deck, feeling the throb of the propeller
beneath his feet as he did so. The steamer was in midstream heading
toward the lower bay and the open sea.

For an hour or more Topham paced the deck hoping in vain for another
sight of the girl who had so fascinated him. The wind was blowing
strongly, and as the Marlatic approached Sandy Hook, she began to pitch
with, the motion of the Atlantic rollers, and her passengers began to
disappear. When she crossed the bar all but a handful had deserted the
decks. Many seats were vacant when the gong rang for luncheon, and as
Miss Ferreira did not appear, Topham began to fear that she was a poor
sailor who would keep her cabin all throughout the voyage.

All afternoon he paced the deck despite the increasing unpleasantness
of the weather. Darkness fell early and when he came up from dinner and
from a tour of the main saloon without seeing anything of the girl, he
was forced to abandon hope of finding her that night.

As he leaned grumpily over the rail watching the dim white caps that
chased each other athwart the course of the ship, one of the few
passengers on deck came and leaned by his side.