VIII


Topham and Rutile met at dinner that night, but neither touched on the
subject that lay nearest the navy officer’s heart. Topham was slow
to tell his feelings at any time, and in this particular instance he
wanted to think a little more before he made a confidant of any one.
Rutile, on the other hand, did not care to attempt to force the other’s
confidence. So they talked the meal through on indifferent topics.

Dinner over, Rutile excused himself. “I’m awfully sorry, old man,” he
said. “But I find I can’t be with you until late tonight. I’ve got
about three hours of work that must be done, even if the heavens fall.
I hate to leave you on your only night here, but--”

“Nonsense. That’s all right! I know what orders are. I’ll make out.
I--well, I’ve got to think something out, myself, and I’ll be glad of
the chance. Just tell me where I can go and moon about--”

“Why not go out to the Thiergarten? The band will be playing and
everybody will be there, but you can be as lonely as you please, if you
please. Stay there a few hours and then show up at the embassy about
eleven or twelve o’clock and we’ll have a talk or go out and paint the
town, whichever you like. Berlin isn’t Paris, but it doesn’t go to bed
by curfew law, either.”

“Thank you! I’ll do as you say. But I don’t care to incarnadine
anything. How do I get to this Thiergarten place?”

Rutile told him and an hour later Topham was walking along the
spacious roadways of the park, thinking of nearly everything but his
surroundings.

He was twenty-five, clean-shaven, Gibsonesque, with the erect carriage
that bespeaks military training. As he moved slowly through the crowd,
many halted for a second and glanced at him before turning to the next
corner in the kaleidoscopic throng. Two looks are the best compliment
a stranger can pay; a single glance asserts insignificance, and three
glances argue peculiarity. Walter Topham was neither insignificant nor
peculiar.

But though many looked at Topham, he looked at nobody. The fair face
of the Countess Elsa was ever before his mind’s eye, filling it to
the exclusion of all else. How could he live for a whole year without
seeing her? How could he accept her orders as final? Yet what could he
do? What could he do? He had been glad to get away from Rutile and that
he might once more ask himself the question.

At the edge of the garden he paused and stared unseeingly down the long
avenue stretched before him, hesitating whether or not to turn back.
He cared little for his surroundings. Wherever he was, he saw only
the brilliant tints of this Brazilian countess who wanted to become a
German duchess.

Abruptly his mood changed; he wanted human companionship; and he faced
back into the garden, vaguely wondering whether in its merry-making
throngs he could find the escape from his own thoughts he craved.

The scene was a charming one. Beneath the radiant gaslights moved a
vivid kaleidoscope of uniforms and gowns. Faces, now sternly handsome,
now softly beautiful, flashed out and then disappeared. The animal
houses, built after the fashion of the countries whence their occupants
came, showed here and there through the trees--now an elephant house
from India and next a pagoda filled with bright-colored Japanese
birds. To Topham’s ears as the music hushed, came the sound of gay
laughter and happy song, mingled with the tinkling of glasses from the
little tables beneath the trees. The air was heavy with the scent of
flowers or perhaps with perfume shaken from the gowns of the women. The
Berliners were making merry in the hearty whole-souled German way that
forgets the toils of the day the moment they are over and recalls them
only when the time comes to resume them.

Insensibly the spirit of the place calmed the American. “We’ve nothing
like this at home,” he mused, “More’s the pity. We’re too feverish, too
anxious to finish, so as to be able to start again. Will we ever really
finish, I wonder? Is it our climate or is it merely a passing phase of
our character? We seem to drop out of it readily enough when we come
over here. I don’t suppose there is a soul in all this crowd that is
thinking of anything except the pleasure of the moment.”

He rested his hand on the back of a vacant chair and stared at the
crowd. Hundreds of people were passing him every minute, but he knew
none of them. He could not hope to see the countess, of course, and he
cared little for any one else.

The fates, however, were propitious. Scarcely had he begun to watch,
when he heard his name called. He looked up and smiled. It was Herrman
Ferreira--he who had shared his compartment on the train, he whom he
had come to identify with the Count del Ouro Preto. That is to say,
it was the brother of his charmer--if not the rose it was the nearest
thorn.