“Mr. Secretary,” he said. “I must see the President instantly.”

The secretary laid down his pen and rose slowly to his feet. In his
way he was as strong a character as McNew--not a man to be hurried or
stampeded. “Impossible, just now, Mr. McNew,” he answered briefly.
“After the cabinet meeting, perhaps.”

“Nothing is impossible. I must see him at once. The matter is one of
the very gravest importance. After the cabinet meeting will be too
late.”

The secretary hesitated. “Can you tell me your business?” he asked.

“I should rather not. You know, Mr. Loren, none better, that I am no
friend of the President’s. That I came here at all is evidence that my
errand is important. That I come at such a time ought to be evidence
that it is of national and not merely of personal importance. I want
one minute’s speech with the President. After that, he can go back to
the cabinet meeting--if he wants to. This is serious, Mr. Secretary!
Very serious!”

The secretary rose briskly. When he gave way, he gave way absolutely.
There was no half-way surrender about Loren. “I’ll tell the President,”
he conceded, as he passed to an inner door; “on your head be the
consequences.”

In a moment the President bustled in. Curtly he nodded to McNew. “You
want to see me, Mr. McNew?” he questioned, brusquely.

“Yes! Read this, please.”

Neither man troubled to show much courtesy. Each hated the other with
a cordial hatred that caused any meeting between them to resemble that
between two bulldogs ready yet hesitating to fly at each other. McNew
had published vitriolic things about the President and the President
had retorted more calmly but more bitterly. Each really considered the
other a menace to the country.

Further, the President was vexed at being interrupted. Theoretically
cabinet meetings are affairs of tremendous dignity, not to be lightly
intruded upon. Actually, if rumor speaks true, their importance is
sometimes in inverse ratio to their secrecy.

Nevertheless, the President took the paper that McNew extended to him,
and ran his eye down it. The look of suspicion faded from his face; and
he read it again more slowly. Then he looked up.

“The importance of this lies more in what it infers than in what it
says,” he asserted, sternly; “and both depend on who wrote it. I do not
recognize the signature.”

McNew nodded. “It is a cipher signature,” he explained. “The whole
message came in cipher. The writer is Miss Lillian Byrd, formerly of
this city. You know her, I believe.”

The President nodded. “I know her very well,” he said, “and I have the
greatest confidence in anything she may say. Where is she? How did she
come to send such a message?”

“She is a Gazette correspondent. She has been doing some work in South
America for the Gazette. You may have read her dispatches from there.
They have been very significant. Three weeks ago she left Buenos Ayres
for New York on the steamer Southern Cross. Last night she sent this
dispatch by wireless in code via Guantanamo. I got it in New York at
three o’clock this morning and left for Washington with it an hour
later on a special train.”

“You have not published it?”

“No.”

“Why not? It is a good story. It would cause a sensation. Why do you
not publish it, Mr. McNew?”

McNew’s atramentous face grew darker. “Because, Mr. President,” he
grated; “because I am an American like yourself. I know, Mr. President,
that you think I cater to anarchy for the sake of money. I think that
you--But, no matter; I did not come here to bandy words. Frankly, I
dislike you, Mr. President, and I would never have brought that message
to you if any other course had been possible. I distrust your policies
and disapprove your acts. But you are President and the subject matter
of that dispatch clearly falls within your province. Therefore I bring
it to you. Take it, not as the service of a friend but merely as that
of one who is willing for the moment to sink personal enmity for the
sake of his country.”

The President listened quietly while the editor spoke.

“Agreed,” he answered. “We will work together in this; later if need be
we can again lock horns. You have done neither more nor less than your
duty, Mr. McNew. On its face this dispatch,” he slapped it across his
hand--“this dispatch is incredible. As a theme for an Oppenheim romance
it would be admirable. As a yellow-journal feature story it might sell
a few copies of the Gazette. It would not do more. The only people who
would believe it would be those who already know it to be true--if it
is true. Yet--if it is true--to publish it would do great harm, for it
would show these very people that we know something of their plans.
So I will ask you to suppress it altogether. I will see that you get
another scoop to balance this one. I will tell you that I believe it is
true. I received other information only last night that convinces me.
Now, Mr. McNew, I must see Miss Byrd at the earliest possible moment.”