“Oh! Easily! Her name really is Elsa Ferreira, you know. The title is
very new--one of Dom Pedro’s creations just before he was turned out by
the republic. So she’s been to New York! She’s been missing from here
for about three weeks, and people have been wondering where she was.”

“Tell me something about her.”

Rutile threw up his hands. “I haven’t time to do justice to the
subject,” he declared. “She came to Berlin about six months ago, and
promptly got the whole hoch wohlgebornen bunch at her feet, men and
women too. She’s beautiful, but it isn’t altogether her looks, you
know; it’s her amazing knowledge of men and things. They say she hired
out once as a chambermaid and at another time worked in a factory
here. They also say that she was the masked unknown who caused such
a sensation by dancing as Salome for charity in the most outrageous
costume that ever--”

“I don’t believe it!” Topham’s face was flushed and his eyes glittered.

Rutile studied him curiously. The dispatches Topham had brought had
been devoted wholly to the Count and Countess del Ouro Preto. The navy
officer did not know this, of course, but Rutile felt very sure that
he believed the two were behind the efforts that had been made to rob
him of them. Knowing the fascinations of the countess, the secretary
had little hesitation in guessing that Topham had fallen a victim to
them. He wanted to warn him, but scarcely knew how to begin. After all,
Topham was going away in twenty-four hours, and the first canon of
friendship is “don’t butt in.”

So he changed the subject. “Hope you enjoyed yourself tonight,” he
observed.

“Finely! I went to your Thiergarten and met several people I knew--Lord
Maxwell, the British Ambassador, and young Ferreira--the Count del Ouro
Preto, I should say--and--”

“Ouro Preto!” Rutile was startled. “What did he want?”

Topham considered. “Nothing!” he answered. “He was full of his coming
audience with the emperor and--”

“Audience with the emperor!” Rutile was on his feet. “What do you mean?
Has Ouro Preto seen the emperor?”

Topham drew out his watch and consulted it. “Well!” he said. “It’s now
12:45, so I may safely say that he has. He was to be received at eleven
o’clock tonight.”

“You’re sure?”

“Well! not entirely! Ouro Preto himself said the appointment was for
ten o’clock tomorrow, but Lord Maxwell said it was for eleven tonight,
and I suspect that Ouro Preto was mistaken.”

Rutile sat down again, slowly. “So do I,” he replied, drily. “But what
I most want to know is, why did he tell you about it?”

Topham laughed. “Oh! he was too full of it to keep still. Pure
spontaneousness!”

“Spontaneous fiddlesticks! What did _you_ say? What did he ask you?”

“Why! I don’t know! Nothing important. Let’s see. I believe he said he
feared somebody might oppose the restoration of the dukedom, and that
he was afraid to speak to most people about it, but that he could talk
to me because of course the United States had no interest--”

“Oh!”

“Eh? Yes! I told him of course we hadn’t. Queer, though! Lord Maxwell
asked me later almost the same thing. Wanted to know whether the United
States objected to the Kaiser giving Ouro Preto his toy? As if the
United States had any interest in petty German dukedoms!”

Rutile threw up his hands. “Lord! Lord!” he cried. “I suppose you told
Maxwell that?” he queried.

“Of course. What the devil is the matter with you, Rutile?”

For an instant the secretary stared at the navy officer, without
speaking. “Look here, Topham,” he said at last. “I want to know
whether you are the guileless child I have always supposed you to be,
or whether you are so infernally deep that even I can’t fathom you.
Confound you, man, you’ve had me guessing ever since you got here.
You--”

Abruptly the secretary broke off and leaned forward. “What’s that?” he
questioned, whisperingly.

The night was very still. Traffic in the street outside had almost
ceased--for the moment had ceased altogether. Not even a footfall
sounded. But from somewhere close at hand there came a slight grating
sound.