XX


Walter Topham was nearing San Francisco. His stay in Japan had been
very brief. Long before he had had time to become acquainted with
conditions in that country or to make certain that Stiles’ suspicions
as to intense activity in the Japanese arsenals and dockyards were
justified, the ambassador had called him into his private office and
thrust before him a dispatch from Washington from the Secretary of
State.

“Ask Topham what he knows about the Countess del Ouro Preto in Berlin.
Cable fully,” it read.

The query was so unexpected that Topham flushed, despite his effort
not to do so and despite his consciousness that the keen eyes of the
ambassador were upon him. He flushed, but he did not hasten to answer
as most people would have done in his place; instead he read the
dispatch again slowly; and concluded that he owed it to what he had
told Rutile in Berlin, and to that gentleman’s faculty of smelling out
intrigues.

“Well, Mr. Topham?” questioned the ambassador.

Topham looked up. “I know the lady,” he said, slowly. “I met her in
Berlin, and learned something of her mission there. I met her the night
I reached Tokio--perhaps Stiles has told you. I do not want to conceal
anything concerning her from any one who has a right to ask. The only
question is what the Secretary wants to know.”

“Everything! I suppose, Mr. Topham.”

“‘Everything’ is pretty broad. Perhaps I had better write down anything
that I have observed that I think may be of interest to the government,
and submit it to you. Then if there is anything lacking, perhaps you
may be able to discover what it is.”

The ambassador nodded. “Do so, Mr. Topham.”

Topham wrote out his account carefully, choosing his words with
exactitude. He was anxious to tell everything that the secretary could
want to know and yet not to magnify any of it or give any part of it a
significance that it really did not possess.

He had about come to the conclusion that Stiles was wrong and that
the errand of the countess to Japan had nothing whatever to do with
any intrigue against the United States, and he naturally did not wish
to say anything that would create such a belief. Nor did he consider
himself called on to go into his personal relations with the countess.

He gave the paper to the ambassador, who read it, asked no questions,
and presumably cabled its substance to Washington. For the next day
Topham received orders to leave for Washington on the next steamer.

Loud was Stiles’ disgust. “I might have known it,” he cried. “It’s
just like those fellows! They’ve got about half the navy in Washington
already, and want more of it.”

“I think they want me for a special reason,” suggested Topham.

“Oh! I suppose so. Devilish queer about that countess, isn’t it. I
wonder what she really was up to!”

Topham looked the secretary in the eye. “Really! if you don’t mind, I
would rather not discuss her,” he observed gently.

“Oh! no offense! Say, look here, Topham. Your going is lucky in one
sense, because you can do something for me--and for the government--on
your way. Do you remember that Jap colonel--Hakodate his name
was--whom you met here the day after your arrival?”

“Yes! I think so.”

“Would you know him again?”

“I might. I’m not certain! Why?”

“Well! I told you we had native spies. One of them brought in word this
morning that Colonel Hakodate sailed a week ago for San Francisco as
an immigrant and that he carried letters to one Hiroshina, who keeps a
Jap restaurant on Market Street near Kearny. Of course the man may be
lying and of course you may say that there’s nothing in it even if he’s
telling the truth. But it looks dashed funny to me, and I wish you’d
just drop in at that restaurant when you get to San Francisco, and
snoop around a bit. See if you can spot Hakodate there, and see what
he’s up to.”

Topham promised.

That had been two months before and San Francisco was now close at
hand. The glow that hovers above every great city had grown more and
more distinct; the peak of Mt. Tamalpais bisected it and the black bulk
of the low southern shore was faintly visible beneath it. Soon the
channel and range lights grew into visibility. Then the steamer slid
through the heavy rolling waves of the bar into the calm of the outer
bay. Fifteen minutes more and it passed through the Golden Gate and the
great city lay outstretched before it.