Topham looked at his watch and wondered whether he would get ashore in
time to catch the midnight train for the east.

Scarcely had he formulated his wish, when a boat came alongside, and a
fresh young voice hailed the deck.

“This is a launch from Fort Alcatraz,” it explained. “Is Commander
Topham on board? I’ve been sent to land him. Here’s the permit from
quarantine.”

In five minutes Topham was in the boat, speeding shoreward. “Orders
from Washington, Mr. Topham,” explained the officer in charge. “Your
berth has been engaged on the twelve o’clock train. It’s nearly nine
now. Meanwhile I’m at your orders. Will you come out to the fort, or
go straight to Oakland and the train, or do you want to see the Great
White Way in San Francisco first? Command me.”

“Thank you! I’ll go to San Francisco, please. I have an errand to
discharge. Please land me at the foot of Market Street.”

“Just as you say, sir.” The young man spoke to the coxswain and the
boat bore away to the right.

Once landed in the western city, Topham said good-night and started up
Market Street, reading the signs on the lamp posts as he went.

Stiles had not been able to give him the number of the restaurant for
which he was looking, but he knew that it was on Market Street just
below Kearney Street, close to Lotta’s fountain and the Chronicle
Building, which he could see outlined against the sky far up the street.

As he stepped briskly along it occurred to him that there was an
unusual stir in the city, though not being familiar with its ordinary
state he had no means of comparison. Still, it seemed to him that
conditions could not be altogether normal. The people were not moving
about their business, but were congregating in groups here and there.
Now and then there would be a sudden movement to one point or another,
but never for any reason that Topham could see.

As a matter of fact he paid little attention. He was interested in
the task that Stiles had set him--a task for which the three hours
available before his train left for the east might easily prove
anything but superabundant. When at last he caught sight of a
brilliant sign “Hiroshima, Japanese restaurant,” his faint curiosity as
to the crowd disappeared.

But before he could enter the portals of the restaurant a big
workingman--nearly as big a man as himself--barred his way.

“You ain’t goin’ in that Jap hash house, are you, friend?” inquired the
stranger.

Topham halted. “That was--er--my idea,” he responded. “Why not?”

“There is strike on; see? An’ the Japs are boycotted; see? They’re
playin’ the devil with hard-workin’ Americans. And we ain’t goin’ to
stand for it. You want to keep away from there, mister.”

Topham hesitated. His interlocutor was not alone; half a dozen other
men, loafing near, were evidently fellow pickets. Topham did not want
any trouble during the few hours he was to be in the city. Yet he was
resolved to enter the restaurant. The sight of two policemen on guard
at the door decided him to force the game.

“I’m sorry,” he said. “But I must go in. There are reasons why I can’t
forego having my supper there. Pardon me!” He pushed by and stepped to
the door. As he went he heard the man cursing behind him.

He seated himself and ordered a meal from a bill of fare presented
him by a stocky Japanese waiter, who seemed not at all alarmed by the
situation. Perhaps he had grown hardened to it.

When the waiter had disappeared toward the back of the place Topham
stared around him.

Whether because of the hour or because of the strike, the restaurant
was almost empty. Only two guests beside himself were in the place and
neither of these seemed to be enjoying his meal. Another waiter was
hovering over them, and behind the cashier’s desk sat a Japanese. As
Topham looked this man raised his head and the navy officer recognized
him. It was Colonel Hakodate.

The thing took away Topham’s breath for an instant. Almost he became a
convert to Stiles’ prognostications of war. For it was inconceivable
that a samurai of the bluest Japanese blood, akin to the emperor
himself, and an officer of the imperial army, should turn restaurant
keeper except for grave reasons.

Little time, however was given him to think. From the street without
came a sudden outcry, a sort of chilling yell that brought all in the
place to their feet. Another instant a dozen stones crashed through the
plate-glass windows. Then came a rush of feet and a crowd of men leaped
into the broad doorway. Topham saw the clubs of the two policemen rise
and fall like flails, and saw them forced backward, still fighting.