XVIII


For the twentieth time Miss Eleanor Byrd peered out of the second story
front window, and turned back with a sigh to where her aunt sat in the
soft glow of the lamp.

“What can he want, auntie? What can he want?” she repeated, also for
the twentieth time.

The elder Miss Byrd did not speak for an instant. “I hope he doesn’t
want _anything_,” she burst out at last. “I wish you had never written
to him. It is bad enough that your sister should be connected with that
awful paper of his--”

“Now, auntie!” Nellie’s eyes danced. “Now, auntie, did you ever see a
copy of the Gazette in your life? Honestly, now?”

Miss Byrd flushed--a lovely pink flush, like that of a Dresden
shepherdness grown old. “Of course not,” she answered indignantly. “Of
course not. Your grandfather would never allow me to read papers of
that sort--”

“Of what sort, auntie,” innocently.

“Of _that_ sort,” returned Miss Byrd decisively. “It’s terrible that
Lillian should write for it. No one who conducts a paper like that
can be a gentleman! Look what the President has said about him! He
has branded him as undesirable--undesirable--and my own niece writes
to such a man. And he ventures to telegraph--telegraph--to make an
appointment with her.”

Nellie laughed softly. She began to say something; then jumped up and
ran to the window and peered out behind the edge of the blind. An
instant later she came back.

“Another false alarm, auntie!” she said. “Maybe you’re going to have
your wish, and he won’t come at all. But”--she paused and suddenly
dropped on her knees beside the elder woman’s chair. “Dear auntie,” she
murmured, softly. “I’m sorry! I’m so sorry to grieve you. I know you
don’t approve of what Lillian is doing--”

“Nellie!” Miss Lee’s tone was shocked.

“Oh! It’s true, auntie. You’re always thinking that gentlewomen don’t
do such things and yet you are always perfectly certain that Lilly must
be a gentlewoman because she is a Byrd. Well! auntie! Neither Lilly
nor I are gentlewomen. We may be ladies--I hope we are--but we’re not
gentlewomen. There are no gentlewomen in these days. They went out of
existence with crinoline--except where they survive in such delightful
creatures as you. No gentlewoman earns her own living, and Lilly and I
have got to earn ours. Times have changed, auntie, dear! This branch of
the Byrd family is poor, dead poor. Lilly threw herself into the breach
and is making lots of money, while I barely starve along. I’m tired of
it, and if Mr. McNew wants my services, he can have them, at a price.”
A twinkle came into the girl’s eyes. “I hope he won’t want me to go
a-burgling, and then tell what it feels like,” she finished.

“Nellie!”

“Oh! I was only joking, you dear old thing!”

“I know, dear!” returned the older lady, plaintively. “But do you think
it’s quite proper to jest on such subjects? I can’t bear to think of
such a thing. Oh! if you--” She broke off as the front bell rang,
loudly and insistently.

Nellie Byrd sprang to her feet.

“It’s they,” she cried, darting to the door. Then she came back. “Dear
auntie!” she breathed. “It’s all right. Don’t worry.” Then she tripped
down the stairs to admit her visitors.

McNew entered first--a big rough-looking man with a pointed beard.
“Miss Byrd?” he questioned.

“Yes! You are Mr. McNew, I suppose. Won’t you come in?”

Mr. McNew strode in. “This is Mr. Risdon, Miss Byrd,” he explained. “He
tries to run the Gazette’s Washington office.”

Miss Byrd’s eyes rested kindly on the correspondent. “I know Mr. Risdon
by sight,” she explained. “No one could be a social secretary in
Washington without knowing him. My sister Lillian has written me about
him, too. Won’t you sit down, gentlemen?”

“Thank you!” Risdon drew forward a chair and the three disposed
themselves.

McNew wasted no time in preliminaries. He was a busy man, and had no
time to spare.