III


Topham woke the next day with a splitting headache and a slight but
persistent nausea--about what might have been expected after his
experience of the night before. The sea had gone down considerably and
though the steamer still rolled somewhat, it no longer pitched to any
degree that should have been in the least disquieting to an at all
seasoned stomach. So Topham rolled out of bed and got on deck as soon
as possible. The fresh air slowly restored him to his normal condition
and by noon little remained to remind him of his humiliating experience.

He saw nothing of Senorita Ferreira, and though he kept a continual
hopeful watch for her, he yet did not altogether regret her absence as
it gave him a chance to think things out.

All the forenoon he lay in his steamer chair drinking in the sea-air
and pondering the situation. In some points his illness had been unlike
any seasickness he had ever heard of; though not entirely dissimilar
to some cases of which he had heard. He felt certain that it was not
an entirely natural illness, but was very uncertain whether it had
resulted from an accidental bane in something he had eaten or whether
he had been deliberately drugged. If he had been drugged, it could have
been done with no other purpose than to rob him of the packet confided
to him by the Secretary of State. He blessed the forethought that had
led him to get the purser to lock it up in the ship’s safe. Struck by a
sudden idea he went below and examined his baggage, but could discover
no sign that it had been searched.

The incident, whether resulting from accident or design, brought home
to him the seriousness of his errand. If he had really been the victim
of a deliberate attempt at robbery, it proved that the cause of his
journey to Berlin was no secret and that daring and unscrupulous foes
were watching him. He had fooled them once, but the voyage was scarcely
begun, and it was not conceivable that they would not follow up the
attack. Topham was as brave as most men, but he felt himself at a
serious disadvantage; his enemies knew him--probably knew all about
him--and he knew nothing of them, neither their age nor their sex nor
their number.

It behooved him to find them out if possible. Naturally his first
thought was of the soft-spoken Spanish-American who had offered him a
cigarette. What was in that cigarette, he wondered. Was anything in
it? Had he really been unconscious and if so, for how long? Had he
been practically so while he stood clutching the rail or had he only
become so after he had been helped to the chair by Senorita Ferreira?
Was she in the plot--if there was a plot? He could contemplate this
last possibility calmly, for it never occurred to him to impute moral
turpitude to those whose interests ran counter to his in a game of high
politics such as this seemed to be.

Think as he might, however, he could not answer any of the questions
that were puzzling him. All he could do was for the situation to
develop itself. He would speak to the Spaniard, but he knew that he
could hope to gain little by doing so. That gentleman, he was sure,
would be provided with an unimpeachable defense.

As for Senorita Ferreira--Well! he had no real reason to suspect
her--or anyone else, for that matter. Probably, indeed, she had come up
in time to frighten off his real assailant.

“All’s well that ends well,” he decided, finally. “If my Dago friend
really did drug me to get the packet, he got decidedly left. On the
other hand, I’ve got an opening with the girl. I’ll take her innocence
for granted till I see mighty good reason to do otherwise. I wonder
where she is, by the way?”

It was not till afternoon, however that the girl came on deck.

She was alone and Topham went straight to her side. “Pardon me,” he
said. “I want to thank you for your great kindness last night.”

The girl smiled at him. “I hope you feel better, senor!” she said.

“Much better! Seasickness is humiliating, but it isn’t lasting. I am
all right, except that I am still a little shaky on my legs.” As he
spoke Topham wobbled with what he hoped was artistic verisimilitude.

The girl uttered a little cry. “Oh!” she exclaimed. “You must not
stand. Take this chair.” She indicated the one next to hers and Topham
sank into it with a sigh of content.

Two hours later when the dinner gong sounded, the girl started and
looked at her watch. “Good gracious!” she exclaimed. “How the day has
gone. I make you my compliments, senor! You have made the time fly.”

She rose and Topham regretfully followed suit.

“I hope you will give me another opportunity, senorita,” he pleaded.