XXII


Leeds of the Star was the first of a group to spy McNew as he swung
past the pillared portico and turned down the asphalt walk to the
office building. Leeds rubbed his eyes and looked again. McNew had not
been to the White House for five years--not since the President had
declared him morally guilty of murder by his having stirred up the
class hatred that had led to it. That he should come there at that late
day meant something out of the ordinary.

Leeds was a local man, however, and did not take a very intense
interest in the doings of New York newspaper proprietors, no matter how
yellow they might be. So he turned to Iverson of the Gazette.

“Isn’t that your boss toting an olive branch up the walk?” he inquired.

Iverson jumped up, and glanced where Leeds pointed. Then, with an
elaborate assumption of indifference, he strolled to the foot of
the steps to meet his chief. His face showed little interest, but
Iverson’s face had long before ceased to be a mirror of his mind. In
reality he was mightily amazed at McNew’s coming. So nonchalantly
did he move that he had gained a dozen steps before any of the other
newspaper men realized the situation. When they did, they tried to
catch up with him without appearing to do so.

McNew, however, appeared to have no desire to make a mystery of his
coming or to give any exclusive information to his own correspondent.
He nodded to him indifferently; then glanced at the other men.

“Good-morning! Good-morning! Gentlemen!” he called. “What do you know?”

Clark of the Post answered him. “Don’t know a thing, Mr. McNew. What’s
the news from New York?”

“Read it in the Gazette,” retorted McNew. “Is the president on view
today?”

O’Laughlin of the World shook his head. “Nothing doing today,” he
answered. “Cabinet day, you know, Mr. McNew!”

McNew shrugged his shoulders. “Oh! well!” he remarked. “It doesn’t
matter. His secretary will do. Sorry, boys! But I haven’t a bit of news
to give you. I’m here on personal business. Good-morning.”

He strove to push through the ring of newspaper men, but they closed up
and stood so firm that he would have had to use some force to get away.
So he laughed and stood still. “Well, boys?” he questioned.

O’Laughlin caught his eye. “Who carried the flag of truce?” he demanded.

The sunlight glinted through the trees into McNew’s eyes, masking the
expression that crept into them. “There isn’t any flag of truce,” he
answered slowly. “I am on the same terms with the President today
that I was five years ago. I have business here today, however, and I
came to transact it with the President or his secretary--not with the
man who used his high office to slander me. I did not come to ask any
favors or offer any friendship; I merely come to do business. I may not
even see the President. I hope I make my position clear?”

The men nodded. “Damned clear,” muttered O’Laughlin, but so low that
McNew did not hear him.

“Then once more, good-morning, gentlemen.” The editor passed through
the ring into the building. As he vanished O’Laughlin gazed after him
shrewdly; then turned to Black of the Journal. “Wonder what the devil
he really is here for?” he muttered.

“The devil knows and he won’t split on a pal,” misquoted Black. “Cheer
up! O’Laughlin! You’ll see it all in the Gazette in the morning.”

But O’Laughlin did not see it in the Gazette, either on the next
or on any other day. McNew’s errand at the White House was not for
publication.

Passing through the reception hall, with the air of one used to his
surroundings, the editor nodded to the colored messenger at an inner
door. “Good-morning, Arthur!” he greeted. “Is the secretary at liberty?”

Arthur rose and flung open the door as nimbly as the “rheumatiz”
permitted. “Yes, suh! I think so, suh!” he answered. “Walk right in,
suh! Ain’t nobody yere this mornin’.”

McNew stepped in. A glance showed him that no strangers were present,
and he strode straight up to a man who sat writing at a desk close
beneath the big south windows. Grim lines had suddenly started out in
his face, and when he spoke all lightness had vanished from his tones.
Any one seeing him then could understand how he could have built his
paper up from nothing to be a national power.