How do you know I have any special instructions for you?”

“The department tipped it off by cable! Let’s have ’em.”

But Topham shook his head. “Hold on a minute!” he exclaimed. “I should
like to understand this game, if you are at liberty to explain. Why in
thunder is the Secretary of State sending you instructions by a navy
officer instead of by the regular channels, and why is he sending you
any instructions at all that he conceals from the ambassador?”

Rutile threw himself back in the chair. “Search me!” he replied
cheerfully. “‘These are the Lord’s doings; they are wonderful in our
sight!’ If I had to guess, though, I should say that the instructions
you bring treat of a secret service matter which has nothing to do
with ambassadorial duties--yet.”

“I don’t understand.”

“Of course not. But it’s like this! Ambassadors are usually highly
polished, highly educated, highly ornate somebodies who have the
money and the wish to put up a fine front. Their principal duties
are to cultivate people, give dinners, and generally jolly things
along. Besides, they come and go, and can’t be expected to know all
the ins and outs of the game. We secretaries are more permanent, and
we are expected to know it all--and to plan it. If we make a slip,
the ambassador disavows us, and we are recalled. We are denounced as
presumptuous underlings who have acted without authority--not worth
quarreling over. Do you understand now?”

Topham nodded. “Yes! I begin to understand,” he said.

“All right! Now let’s have the papers.”

But Topham shook his head. “I haven’t any papers for you, Rutile!” he
said soberly. “I did have, but--I haven’t now!”

Rutile stared at him. “Good Lord! Man! You haven’t lost them, have
you?” he cried.

Topham hesitated. “No!” he answered, at last. “I haven’t lost them.
But I became a little alarmed about their safety and so I put them into
an envelope and addressed them to John Smith in care of the embassy
here. I carried a dummy in my pocket. The purser said they would reach
here about as soon as I did, and unless I am mistaken they are in that
envelope close to your hand on the table there. Allow me!”

The navy officer reached over and picked up an envelope. He opened it
and took out a packet which he handed to Rutile.

“Take your instructions,” he said.

Rutile threw himself back in his chair. “Well! I’m d--d!” he observed.

“Very likely!”

“But--but why did you-- What happened to--”

“Nothing! Nothing at all! There were some slight incidents--nothing of
any importance.”

“Oh! Nothing of any importance. Humph!” Rutile’s tones were sarcastic;
but he understood that for some reason Topham did not wish to speak
frankly, and so he proceeded cautiously.

“Er--voyage quite pleasant, I suppose?” he questioned.

Topham laughed ruefully. “Oh! Yes,” he answered, slowly. “Yes! Very
pleasant. Delightful, in fact! But, confound it, old man! Do you know,
I was seasick? Think of it! Seasick! Why, I haven’t been seasick for
ten years--not since my maiden cruise in Academy days. But I got it
this time good and proper!”

“Ah!” Rutile dropped his eyes, and began playing with a paper weight.
“How long did it last?” he questioned, carefully.

“Couple of days! It caught me right after dinner the first night out.
I went really dizzy. Fortunately it was cloudy and there weren’t any
people on deck, and my shameful secret became known to few. A girl who
happened to be there offered me a chair and I lay in it till I could
get to my cabin.”

“Humph! It’s lucky you didn’t go to sleep in that chair--with these
papers in your pocket!”

“I did go to sleep. Had quite a--er--nap, I suspect. But the papers
weren’t in my pocket. The purser had them in his safe.”

“Oh! I see!” Rutile laughed shortly. “Of course your humiliating
experience spoiled any chance for a flirtation with the charming girl
who--she was charming, of course.”