XI


When Topham left Miss Byrd he went back to the American embassy. The
hour was late and the windows were all dark and the rooms seemed
deserted, and despite Rutile’s invitation for a moment Topham hesitated
to climb the stairs.

Finally he stepped to the entrance, intending to ask the
watchman-porter there whether the secretary had gone. To his
surprise--though not so greatly so as it would have been if he had
known German customs better--the door was ajar and the watchman
missing; so with a shrug of his shoulders he entered and climbed the
stairs.

A tap at the embassy offices brought immediate answer, and he opened
the door just as Rutile came to meet him.

“Come in, old man,” called the latter. “I’ve been sitting in the
moonlight thinking something out. I often do when I’ve got something
important on hand. Come and sit down and I’ll light up and we’ll have a
drink.”

Topham took the proffered chair, but declined the drink. “Not tonight,
thank you!” he decided. “And don’t light up for me. I like moonlight.
Queer about the moon, though. It affects most people the other way,
doesn’t it.”

“Maybe! But not me! I’m rather excitable, you know. Liable to get
worked up over things and to exaggerate their importance. When I
suspect I’m doing that, I sit down in the moonlight--if there’s a moon
handy--and in the stillness--if stillness is to be had--and think it
all over. That’s what I’ve been doing tonight.

“And did it soothe you?”

Rutile shook his head, doubtfully. “I’m not certain,” he admitted. “You
navy people have the best of it, after all. You haven’t got to agitate
your supposed brains. All you’ve got to do is to fight, and if you get
a chance to distinguish yourself the whole country knows it and the
Sunday newspapers call you heroes and clamor for your promotion. We
diplomats, on the other hand, are valuable in the inverse ratio that we
make it known.”

“Yes?” remarked Topham, languidly.

“Yes! Of course!” returned Rutile, impatiently. “We diplomats are the
real defenders of the peace. Suppose we had a war! All you fellows
could do would be to whip the enemy and if you did it you would get
medals and prize money and things. But I’ve prevented at least one
war and nobody knows anything about it except the last administration
at Washington and if there’s any deader tomb for a man’s achievements
than the last administration, I don’t know where it is--unless it’s the
administration before the last.”

Topham fidgeted. He was not very apt at speech. “What war did you
prevent?” he asked, at last, seeing that Rutile expected him to say
something.

“Oh! None of any special consequence,” returned the other
sarcastically, “Just a little bit of a war--one between Germany and the
United States.”

“You’re joking, aren’t you?”

“Never less so. His Majesty Wilhelm was working to grab southern
Brazil two or three years ago and I checkmated him; knocked his plans
sky-high. If I hadn’t we’d have had to fight him or abandon the Monroe
Doctrine. And just because I did it so quietly nobody knew anything
about it, bright young men like you want to know whether I am serious;
even the Ambassador has his doubts on the subject.”

Topham was not listening. Rutile’s mention of Brazil had given him the
opening he desired.

“That reminds me,” he said, awkwardly, “What do you think of Count Ouro
Preto and his sister? Risdon was speaking of them this morning, you
know. They’re Brazilians, aren’t they?”

Rutile swallowed. It is not altogether pleasant to be checked so
abruptly when talking about one’s self. Then he laughed.

“You’re the directest ever!” he remarked. “Why didn’t you tell me you
wanted to know about the Countess Elsa, and save me telling you a lot
of stuff you didn’t listen to? I suppose you have found out that it was
she who crossed with you?”

Topham stared. “Yes!” he said. “Risdon pointed her out on the street
this morning and I recognized her. How did you guess?”