A sandy-colored hand crept up to MacKeenon’s chin and covered his mouth.
The eyes closed to narrow slits. It was like a sly old dog warning
another, not so sly, not near so old. Chester Fay understood. He turned
toward the turnkey who had brought him out.

“Follow me, sir,” he heard him say.

The way led across the courtyard, through a low stone arch and into a
Bertillon room, then to where a cold shower splashed upon well-scoured
flags. The turnkey pointed to the descending water. Fay stripped, tossed
the hated clothes away from him, lathed his lean, long-limbed body and
mopped his silver-gray hair. It had been brown when he had entered the
castellated gate, five long years before the unexpected coming of
Inspector MacKeenon.

The clothes the turnkey brought had evidently come out of the yellow
kit-bag. They fitted. They were of price and rich texture. There were
also the little things which a gentleman carries—a flat, gold watch, a
set of studs and cuff-links, a pearl pin and a neat cigarette case which
contained six cigarettes.

Fay accepted all these things with the abstract air of one born lucky.
He did not understand the meaning of it all. Discharged prisoners, or
those released by order of the Home Secretary, were fitted with H.M.P.
garments made of shoddy by piece-work convicts whose hearts were
elsewhere when they worked.

“Hall ready, sir?” asked the red-faced guard with strange civility.

Fay lifted his slender shoulders slightly, adjusted his cuffs, touched
his cravat and faced the light which streamed in through the Bertillon
room. He did not answer the turnkey. The sovereign contempt of a caged
eagle was in his glance.

He drew down his plaid cap which matched so well the suit of tweeds,
lowered his chin and followed the turnkey out into the glad light of
dawning day and across the stone-flagged yard to MacKeenon’s side.

A prison clerk—one of those rat-eyed trusties whom nobody trusts—hurried
out from the Principal Keeper’s office with an oblong of printed paper.
He passed this release to MacKeenon.

The inspector signed it with the butt of a badly chewed indelible
pencil, glanced at Fay, then said distinctly—too distinctly:

“A receipt for C-45. Yea, he may b’back. Ye canna tell!”

To the man who had prowled the world like a tiger a jungle—to the third
cracksman living who could open a modern cannon-ball safe or stop the
four circular tumblers of a strong-box in their correct position—this
sly aside of MacKeenon’s was enlightening. The old gray dog, whose scent
was keener than a Louisiana bloodhound’s, was baying down the trail
again for some wolf-pack of the underworld.

Chester Fay set his pale face and fingered his cravat. He dropped his
hands to his side and followed the inspector out through a rising gate,
where the two men stood facing the misted moorland and the spiring
towers of Princetown beyond the causeway. As they stood there a clang
sounded behind. It was the turnkey bringing down the shutter of iron.

A sleeve-valved motor, black, tired with steel-studded rubber, throbbing
with life and a desire to roll up the road, stood close at hand. Into
the tonneau of this car MacKeenon tossed the kit-bag and overcoat, then
turned and assisted Fay to mount the running-board, where he had
hesitated for the minutest fraction of a second.

Liberty was over that causeway. Freedom might be gained by a try at the
marshes and moorland. The mist was almost thick enough to hide in. The
world beyond was very wide indeed. The chance which offered might never
come again. Fay had lost opportunity too often not to weigh well the one
that came to him.

He felt the Inspector’s fingers on his sleeve. They seemed gentle. There
was that, however, in the gripping mystery of his release that savored
of things to come. Perhaps, after all, the man from the Yard had other
plans than the underworld. Perhaps the release had to do with the great
war which had finally been brought to an end. It would be easy to
escape, for Fay had the lithe, long limbs of the runner.

But he thought better of it and stepped through the tonneau door where
MacKeenon had assisted him. The surge, as the car leaped forward and the
driver glided through second, third and into fourth speed, was just
sufficient to cause him to sit down upon the seat, where the inspector,
with solicitude, offered one half of an auto robe whose woolen texture
felt like silk to a man who had slept under shoddy for five years.

The mist-shrouded moors were crossed over rumbling bridges of planks or
hollow arches of stone. The main highway, which swung from west to east
upon the troubled isle, was reached. Into this broad road the driver
turned the great car, stepped upon the governor-throttle and opened wide
the triple-jetted carburetor.