IX

ROBBERY UNDER ARMS


The ship had no sooner touched the dock than Fay leaped ashore and
hurried toward a yellow light which marked a half-hotel, half-tippling
place of doubtful aspect.

He pressed the door open and glided inside the single ground-floor room.
A group of burgers and broad-hipped Dutch girls were sitting at the
tables. A Holland maid was bending over the tap to a huge cask of beer.

She straightened, pressed back her hair and stared at Fay as if he were
a ghost. Her eyes dropped under his level scrutiny. He turned toward the
drinkers.

“Is there a motor car anywhere about this town?” he asked. “I must have
one!” His voice was keen and demanding.

A German deserter from Hindenburg’s shattered armies rose, set down a
stein, and threw back his head.

“Engländer?” he asked drunkenly. “Du bist ein Engländer?”

“Worse than that!” declared Fay. “I’m American! I want a motor car or a
fast wagon. I must go back!” Fay pointed toward the east. He dipped his
hand into his right-hand trousers pocket and brought forth a palm-full
of English shillings and sovereigns.

“Here, Fräulein,” he said to the girl at the beer-cask. “Drinks all
around. You join me, bitte?”

Fay’s knowledge of German was limited. He knew no Dutch at all. He
labored under the delusion that the language of the Fatherland would
serve for Holland. The presence of the German soldier had seemed to
carry this out.

The maid’s stupid stare told him that he had not been understood. He
turned toward the German deserter. It seemed irony that he should use
such a man for the furtherance of his purpose.

“Here, Heinrich,” he said, passing over a gold piece, “get busy! Drinks
all around and then a motor car. Ask these people if there is one in the
burg.”

The German was not too drunk to know the color of gold. He said
something to the girl in Dutch, snatched up his stein, drained it and
hurried out through the doorway. Fay tasted the bitter beer brought to
him by the maid, lifted his eyes over the edge of the stein and strained
his ears.

A hoarse siren blared the night. The ship was leaving the quay. The hour
was not yet ten. Fay darted swift glances over the drinkers. He studied
a picture which might have been painted by Rubens or Franz Hals. A slow
fire burned in a great open fireplace. The crude tables, the broad-faced
roisterers, the silent girls with their long pig-tails and meek eyes
held him until a sound was driven through a quarter-open window. This
sound was the exhaust from an open muffler. It had an American
suggestion in its sharp notes.

Fay carefully avoided the nearest table, bowed to the maid as he drew
his coat about his knees, and pressed open the door. He stood under the
front thatch of the inn. He smiled with quick appreciation as the round,
moon-like discs of two headlamps burned through the fog, shot off across
the Lowland, then steadied and grew brighter.

“A flivver!” he exclaimed. “By all that’s holy—it’s from the States.”

A Dutch boy in an impossible make-up of leathern coat and bright, peaked
cap drove up and almost catapulted the drunken German to the road’s
cobbles as the brake went on with a protesting squeak.

Fay lifted the German soldier from the dashboard and steadied him on his
wobbling legs, where he stood like a limp mannikin ready to topple over.

The Dutch boy slowed the engine by putting up the throttle lever, under
the wheel. He stared blankly from Fay to the German.

“All right,” said the cracksman as the door of the inn opened and let
out a mellow light. “I paid him. I’ll pay you, too, when you land me
over there.” Fay pointed toward the east through the night fog.

The boy twisted the wheel, partly pressed his pedal and advanced the
throttle. The flivver spun and almost struck the German with the rear
mud-guard. Fay leaped aboard and showed the boy a shining yellow
sovereign in the hollow of his palm.

“Drive like hell!” he said. “I’ll show you the way—along the canal.”