“Engines, Ja!” said the stoker, removing his pipe and pressing the bowl
with a broad thumb. “Ja! Ja!”

“Thanks,” said Fay, grasping the curved hand-rail and turning in his
descent. He glanced at the waves apprehensively.

He reached the grating and stood in the gloom between a rusty bulkhead
and a triple-expansion engine. He saw, high over his head, a row of open
port-holes. He had marked these from the deck. They had given him the
plan to save the cipher-key.

An oil-incrusted engineer passed without noticing him. Fay started aft.
There was a maze of injector-pumps, bilge-pumps, condenser-pipes and
steam leaders on the starboard side of the engine. He saw the hand
wheels of the sea-cocks. These were well down on their threads in a
closed position. He glanced at the open hatch.

His chance came as the same surly engineer shouted an order and vanished
through the bulkhead-door which led to the stoke-hold. It was a free and
easy ship such as is found in the coast service of Holland and the North
Countries. He worked swiftly as he opened three of the sea-cocks. He
paused on the ladder which led to the engine-room companion. Running
water sounded within the space between the double skin of the ship.
Bilge muck seeped along the gratings. An oily patch glistened and
reflected the light from a yellow lantern.

Fay descended the ladder and waited at the foot. He was not sure that he
had done everything necessary to sink the ship. There might be an
automatic stop on the sea-valves. An indicator bell was liable to ring.
He leaned and listened. Sounds came to him of shovels scraping over the
iron plates in the stoke-hold. There was a smell of hot oil about the
engine room. The clanking of the engines seemed slowed for some reason.

Gripping the palms of his hands with his fingernails, he waited for
someone to come aft and report the water. It would be easy then to
explain that he had come down the ladder to investigate the matter.

An oath in Dutch sounded from the stoke-hold. A coal-passer threw down a
shovel. There was an argument between the engineer who had gone forward
and the stoker. Hot words rolled through the bulkhead door. This would
serve to gain time. Fay suddenly glanced at the deck. It was almost a
foot deep with brine.

He turned and climbed the ladder swiftly. He passed the Dutchman at the
engine-room companion, who was still smoking his pipe. The mild eyes of
the man made no sign. A heavy veil of fog and mist rolled over the
ship’s bow and wrapped the standing rigging.

Fay stared about the deck. A bo’swain stood in the chains on the
starboard side. He swung a lead line but did not let it go. The skipper
leaned out of the side door of the pilot-house. His eyes were on the
fog.

A sudden sickening lunge of the bow showed that the ship had taken
aboard much water. This action escaped the seamen. They stood at their
position—unaware that the deck had lowered toward the surface of the
water.

Fay thrust his hands into his overcoat pockets and climbed to the
boat-deck. He felt the cool surge of victory. A few minutes more and
there would be no saving power to keep the vessel from a watery grave.
Already it was water-logged and sluggish.

He turned and saw Saidee Isaacs standing in the doorway of her cabin.
She was watching the two Germans who were sheltered by the long-boat.
Fay moved along the canted deck and grasped her arm.

“Get ready for trouble,” he whispered buoyantly. “Have you anything in
the cabin you want? You won’t have a chance to get it later.”

“What have you done?”

He loosened his grip and smiled at the thought of the open sea-cocks.
“I’ve done enough,” he said. “I didn’t think it could be done. This is a
sleepy ship.”

“Have you set fire to it?”

Fay leaned against the cabin sheathing and marked the nearness of the
sea.

“Not quite as bad as that,” he said, pressing his hand against the
sheathing. “I’ve scuttled her, though, or think I have. I opened almost
everything with a wheel on it, below. As soon as the alarm is given, I
want you to hurry to the after boat and pull the plug. One boat ought to
be enough for the crew and passengers. There will be a sort of a panic.
They’ll all get away, though, except the man we want. He’s nailed tight
in his cabin.”

Fay stepped to the rail and leaned over. The reaching waves which curled
to the scupper holes seemed like white fangs. The alarm had not yet been
given!