“Thanks,” he said, thrusting it under his coat. “I’m a thousand times
obliged. Now can you tell me the way to the railroad? The chemin de
fer?”

“Der Bahnhof?” asked the burger in German.

“Yes,” said Fay. “By all means, yes!”

The man went to the door, and pointed toward a road which crossed the
canal at a sharp angle. His finger steadied in an easterly direction. He
glanced at Fay.

“I understand,” said the cracksman, shifting the bundle of sandwiches
under his arm. “That way? I’m much obliged! Thanks, good frau,” he added
gallantly. “I guess there’s queer people knock on Holland doors these
days—but none queerer than myself. Good-by!”

Fay hurried through the gloom. He turned once and saw the couple, who
seemed to be childless, standing in the oval light of the open door. At
their feet sat the dog, his intelligent head held sideways.

Saidee Isaacs was waiting behind the hay-mow. To her, Fay handed the
package of sandwiches.

“I know the way to the railroad station,” he said. “We’ll eat as we
walk. We can get something to drink in the canal or a brook. It’s pot
luck, Saidee, till we reach civilization.”

They crossed the canal by a narrow bridge and descended to the eastern
bank. A white road showed which struck inland through the mist. Barns
and windmills loomed over the top of well-kept hedges. A wagon passed
which was drawn by oxen. The sleepy driver turned and watched the
unusual vision that had attracted him.

Suddenly Fay stopped and stared at the girl. A light shone ahead. A
whistle had sounded. A roar was in the air of a train streaking through
the night.

“I think we can get a train north from there,” Fay said, pointing toward
the light. “We’ll go to Delfzijl, at the mouth of the Ems, and from
there we’ll get a boat to Stavanger or some port in Norway.”

She glanced back, then turned toward him.

“I’ll get a train south,” she said. “There is no use arguing. My mind is
set!”

Fay smiled and hooked his right arm within the cove of her own. “You’re
coming with me, Saidee,” he commanded. “You’re coming for a good reason,
too. That sleep did me a world of good. You were right about those
glasses. I shouldn’t have thrown them into the sea. There’s something in
them—after all.”

“What do you mean?”

“I mean that a woman’s intuition was better than a man’s judgment. I
thought they were a trifle. Perhaps they were—but there’s a big doubt.”

“Don’t talk in riddles. What have you discovered?”

He stared about the road and then pointed toward the light.

“We’ll move fast,” he said. “We must go to Stavanger and find if
Ace-in-the-hole Harry—his right name is Harry Raymond—is there, or if he
has taken a boat for the States.”

She stared at him as if he had gone insane.

“I never heard of such a man or such a name. The idea of going to
Stavanger to see an individual called that! Why, Chester!”

“That’s right,” he said, “jump at conclusions. Now you’re wrong and I
was wrong. Ace-in-the-hole Harry is the king of the deep-sea Greeks. He
knows more about card manipulation than any man living. He is working
the boats and the pigeons and the new flock of commercial travelers who
have gold. He can rob a man at poker or at fan-tan. He can deal seconds
or hold out three aces. I saw him in the smoking-room of the Flushing,
coming over to Holland. From there he was going to Stavanger. I heard
him say so.”

“Do you think I would associate with him?”

“Yes—when I tell you he wore smoked-glasses exactly like the pair I
threw away!”

She flushed and held herself back. She broke away from him and flashed
an arch glance of query.

“What do you mean?” she asked. “What have his glasses got to do with the
cipher-key?”