For people effectively shipwrecked on an inimical planet and with no
real hope of ever returning to their home, it was hardly appropriate
that they got absorbed in the operation of a local vehicle. But this
vehicle, large and roomy, was not a ground car so much as it was a land
cruiser. It ran with astonishing smoothness, considering that it lacked
pneumatic tires. And though from the outside it seemed to lurch and
sway as it covered the rough ground, inside the lurchings were not felt
at all.

The bipeds ran and skipped and loped beside it. Jerry picked up a
little speed. They strained themselves to keep up.

Jerry had said ten miles. Actually, the distance was nearer twelve.
There was snow in patches here and there. The air grew misty. Through
the mist the edge of the ice-cap could be seen, a wall of opaque white
some sixty or seventy feet high at its rounded melting edge, and rising
to greater thickness beyond. And they came to a small running stream
some four or five feet wide, the first running water they had seen on
this planet.

And there were the clustered vehicles, about forty of them lined up as
if on a highway which had come to an end in an ice barrier now melted
away.

The vehicles were partly or wholly covered with water-borne clay which
had been laid upon them by just such meltings of the ice-cap. They ran
on into a small hillock which had formed since they had come to a stop
at this place. Some were merely hummocks of clay-covered metal, barely
showing above the ground. Some were what could be called only hub-deep
in the clay. But it was being buried in the clay which had preserved
them.

"You see, sir," Jerry explained, "I got the creatures to help me dig
down to the doors, so I got into all that show. For weapons."

But Borden did not compliment him, though a compliment was due.
Instead, Borden said in a toneless voice:

"I also see that Sattell has been here. He must have trailed you. He
saw where you had driven one vehicle away. So he dug out the tracks of
another one--there!--and tried it. And it worked. Sattell is gone."

It was true. Jerry, stricken, drove over to the new deep gouges in the
earth which showed plainly where a way had been dug to take out another
gold-metal vehicle on its wheel-like treads, and that it had been
backed from where it had been almost buried.

Bones on the ground showed where Sattell had savagely flung the pitiful
relics of the original owners of the car. The prints of his boots were
plain in the loosened dirt.

"We've got to chase him?" Ellen asked apprehensively.

"He has the star maps and the log," Borden said tonelessly. "Or else he
knows where he hid them."

"But where would he go?" persisted Ellen.

"He knows we're after him," said Borden. "He knows we're armed, and I
doubt that he is, except for his bow and arrow. Where would he go for
help, except to the place where we have enemies?"

The track of the other vehicle was clear. There had been no feet
heavier than those of Jerry's biped friends on any of this ground for
many, many years. There was a deep furrow where the other ground car,
the one Sattell had taken, had rolled away.

Jerry put on speed.

Borden said, "I'll watch how you drive this thing, Jerry, and relieve
you presently. Sattell can't drive night and day. We can. And there's a
long way to go. We'll catch him!"

But Sattell had a head start. Five miles from the beginning of the
chase, the track they followed swung to the right and down a rolling
hillside. They followed. And a seamless highway built of stone,
patently artificial, came out of the hillside and stretched away across
country.

It was forty feet wide. And here, in some dust that had drifted across
it at some spots, they saw the trail of Sattell's car. At other places,
even for most of the way, the winds had kept the roadway clear.

Jerry increased his speed. Borden thought to look at the road behind
them.

Ellen, understanding, said, "No, the poor creatures couldn't keep up.
They were running after us as if their hearts were breaking, but they
couldn't make it."