XII

SMOKED-GLASSES


Saidee Isaacs was the first to recover her voice and reason. She seized
Fay’s left arm and drew him away from the edge of the cliff. She feared
that he might cast himself into the sea.

“You shouldn’t have thrown them away,” she said quickly. “Chester—you
should have looked them over carefully. Perhaps—”

“I’m done! To think what a fool I’ve been. We’ve both been gulled. It is
the end of a wild-goose chase—if ever there was one!”

She let go of his arm. Her face lifted to his. She saw his eyes flash
out and over the sea. A bitter light was in their depths. Defiance
flamed there. He squared his shoulders and dropped his hands to his
sides.

“Come on!” he said. “Let’s go inland and find out where we are. We can
get a railroad train or something for the north. The country is full of
refugees and broken soldiers. No one will notice us. We can go to
Stavanger and then to the States.”

She furrowed her brows and blocked his way by thrusting her body before
him.

“We mustn’t leave here yet!” she declared positively. “You’ve done
something you shouldn’t have done. Suppose the key was written on the
wrapping paper of that package. Suppose the smoked-glasses were
hollow—or something like that. We wouldn’t expect the key to be right
out in plain view. I wonder if there is any way to get them back?”

“Get them back? No! I never want to see them! I’m done—I say! They were
ordinary glasses like beggars or blind men buy for a shilling. There was
nothing on the wrapper or the box. The whole thing was a hoax—or an
accident.”

“Do you think that the embassy would put such a thing in the inner box
of their strongest safe?”

“They didn’t know what was in the package.”

“But, Chester, they refused to give it up—either to Germany or to
England. They knew it was important. They knew that the commercial war
was on. The signing of peace had nothing to do with the dye secrets.
They belong to the man who is strong enough and clever enough to get
them. You got the key to the whole thing—then threw it away.”

Fay stared back over the pathway. He hesitated, then turned toward the
girl. Her eyes were dark and smoldering. She was very sure of herself.
The fire within her had reddened her olive cheeks. Her lips had
hardened.

“I despise you!” she said. “You’re so thoughtless! You overlook the
trifles of life. What are we going to say to Sir Richard?”

“Sir Richard will never find me. You can go back! I’m going to the
States. I’m done, I tell you!”

She realized that he was not to be moved from his declaration.

“How deep is the water where you threw the glasses?” she asked as he did
not move from his position.

“Fifty or sixty feet, Saidee. There’s an undertow and tides and waves.
It’s no use! Let’s forget the smoked-glasses and go to Stavanger. We’ve
got a right to live in this world. Has the Yard any strings on you?”

She did not answer him. Instead, she stepped to the edge of the cliff
and glanced downward. She swayed, braced her foot and stood there in an
attitude of thought. Finally she turned and came back to him.

Her hand clutched his left arm as she drew him toward the side rocks and
a shelter from the wind. She spread her damp skirt and sat down upon a
driftwood plank which someone had carried up from the sea. She dropped
her face in her hands. He watched her.

“Quit that!” he said with feeling. “What are you doing—crying?”

She glanced up swiftly. Her eyes were bright and free from tears. “I’m
thinking, Chester,” she said, “of a number of things. I’m not like other
women—or girls. I can hate and I can despise. I almost hate you, now.
Your friends are Sir Richard and MacKeenon. They helped me get you out
of Dartmoor. You say they did it for a purpose. Granting that does not
change matters. The purpose is a high one. You responded at first. You
took their parole and went to Holland. Now, when you may have held the
key to the dye cipher in your hand, you threw it away. You talk of going
to Stavanger and to the States. Don’t you realize the obligation you owe
to me?”