To the left and behind was desert, stretching away in the dawnlight,
in every conceivable shade of tawny yellow and red, with blue shadows
behind the hummocks in the sand, and with an utterly cloudless sky
overhead. To the right and ahead was an area of straggling, stunted
vegetation beneath rose-tinted cloud masses with the dazzling white of
snow against the horizon. There were other clouds above the snow.

The drive burbled erratically. The ship dropped like a stone. Then the
drive flickered on, and off, and on and off again so that ship's whole
fabric shook.

Borden threw the drive off and on again and the induction surge of
current cleared whatever was wrong for a moment. They felt the ship
fighting wind pressure that was trying to turn it end over end. Then it
steadied, and nothing happened--and still nothing happened.

The crash came violently. Ellen was flung against Borden and held fast
to him. Jerry collapsed to the floor. Sattell went reeling and banged
against the end wall of the control room.

There was stillness.

Borden stared at the screens, then got up painfully and went to a port.
The ship had landed in soil which seemed to be essentially sand. It
had splashed the soil aside in coming to ground. But it was not desert
sand. There was moisture here. Beyond the impact area a straggling
ground cover grew. It looked like grass, but it was not.

Nearby was one greenish object which looked like a cactus without its
spines. It had a silky covering like down. A little farther on Borden
could see three or four things quite like stunted, barkless trees.

The ground was gently rolling. In the distance the growing light showed
a whiteish haze, and clouds in the sky. All shadows were long and
stretched-out. This was not far from the ice-cap. Indeed, it appeared
that snow was nearby. But from the port on the opposite side of the
ship the beginning of the planetary desert could be seen.

"We're down," said Borden with relief. "Now we've got to find out if
anybody saw us land, and if so, whether they'll insist on killing us or
whether we can make friends."

Sattell said, "You've got to arm me, Borden! Dammit, you can't leave me
unarmed on a hostile planet!"

"I'd like to have four weapons ready instead of three, though if we
have to fight a whole planet even four won't be much good. But I can't
risk letting you have anything dangerous in your hands," Borden said.

Sattell ground his teeth.

Jerry said apologetically, "Shall I test the air, sir?"

Borden nodded. He regarded Sattell with a weary, worried frown,
while Jerry readied the test. The situation was bad, but Sattell was
troublesome too.

Two months ago, while the drive was still in process of repair, Borden
had heard a strangled cry from Ellen. He found her struggling to scream
as she fought Sattell.

Borden's appearance had ended the struggle, of course. Sattell had been
confined to his bunk for two weeks before he was able to move about
again. But Borden hadn't been able to kill an unconscious man then,
and he couldn't kill Sattell in cold blood now. But Sattell could kill
anybody. And he would, if he got the chance.

"It's the devil, Sattell," Borden said somberly. "If I didn't think you
were a rat I could make a bargain to forget what's happened until we
get the ship safely home. But I don't think you'd keep a bargain."

Sattell snarled at him and turned away. Jerry looked up from the tiny
air-testing cabinet. He'd drawn in a sample of outer air and a silent
discharge had turned its oxygen to ozone, which a reagent absorbed. A
hot silver wire stayed bright, and so proved the absence of chlorine or
sulphur, CO_{2} tested negligible, and hot magnesium took up nitrogen.
The remnant of the sample did not react with reagent after reagent, so
it had to be noble gases.

"It seems all right, sir," said Jerry. "If I may, I'll go in the
air-lock and take a direct sniff. May I, sir?"

"Unless Sattell wants to volunteer," Borden observed. "I would think
better of you, Sattell, if you volunteered for first landing."

Sattell laughed shrilly. "Oh, yes! I'll walk out on a hostile planet,
and let you take off and leave me! Even if you can't leave the planet,
you can come down ten thousand miles away. You'd like to do that, too!"

"Meaning," Borden said, "that _you_ would.... All right, Jerry. Go
ahead."