“A can take no chances,” apologized the vigilant inspector.

Saidee Isaacs started. She wheeled with flaming cheeks and glowing eyes
toward the inspector.

“Take them off!” she exclaimed hotly. “What do you mean?”

MacKeenon carefully gripped the loose end of the cuffs and felt to see
if Fay’s wrist was clamped tight enough.

“A have my orders,” he said craftily.

“From whom?” The girl’s voice was tense and demanding.

“From the Yard. A can do nothing else than what A’ve done. In the train
A’y’ll take them off. A shall take them off.”

“Never mind,” said Fay slowly. “He’s got some kind of a warrant. I’m on
parole—you know.”

MacKeenon chuckled and snapped his eyes. “Ye are that,” he said, “and
here comes the boat. Step this way, Chester.”

A whale-boat rowed by two sailors glided alongside the flush-deck of the
destroyer. The seamen upended oars and reached for a grating. They
waited.

MacKeenon, with Fay in tow, led the way over the duck-boards and down a
flat ladder to the boat. He stepped aft and made room on the stern seat
for the cracksman. Saidee Isaacs sprang aboard and glided to the bow.
The two ensigns stood at attention. They saluted as the sailors shoved
off and started rowing.

The shore was reached at a Government quay, piled high with North Sea
stores. An auto was standing at the head of the quay. The driver blew
three blasts on his horn. MacKeenon answered the signal by raising his
hand. A man came gliding between the boxes and bales and stared at Fay.
He turned toward MacKeenon.

“A’ve booked a compartment on the Royal Scotsman,” he said like an
inferior to a superior. “Ye should reach London by noon. Sir Richard has
wired me he will be waiting at the House of the Two Lions.”

“Scotland Yard,” whispered Saidee Isaacs into Fay’s ear.

MacKeenon caught the sly aside and smiled like a crafty manhunter.

“A hae no doot it is,” he said, staring at Saidee Isaacs. “It’s a quiet
branch of the Criminal Investigation Division.”

The inspector led the way to the waiting motor. The drive to the station
was made in silence. A wait ensued as the Dundee detective went within
the train-shed and arranged for the compartment. He came back rubbing
his dry hands. He nodded toward MacKeenon.

“Ye go through a side door,” he said. “A’y’ll follow ye—to see that ye
get there. A had a slip-up in this spot once. My mon got clean away.”

The Scot glanced at Fay with a glitter in his eyes. The cracksman
shivered slightly. He could not help the movement. There was that to the
inspector’s which spoke of blood-hunting instincts bred in their bones.

“They’re all the same,” he whispered to Saidee Isaacs. “I told you they
were all the same.”

She signaled caution and followed him through to the train-shed.
MacKeenon spoke to the guard. The compartment was unlocked. They entered
and sat down.

The Dundee detective stood on the running-board with his watch in hand
and his eyes glued upon the station-master, who wore more medals than a
German field marshal of Hohenzollern days.

“Ye’re off,” he announced, snapping shut his watch. “A wish ye all a
pleasant trip.”

The train pulled out of the long station and struck across the city. It
plunged into a covered bridge and out upon highland. It took the
switches and shunts like a scared cat on a fence. It tunneled the fog
and the night—south-bound for Edinburgh and London.

MacKeenon reached and tried both doors of the compartment. He turned,
fished into his vest pocket, and brought forth a tiny key.

“A’y’ll take off the darbies, now,” he said, slipping the key into the
barrel lock of the handcuffs. “Ye can rest easier.”

“It is about time!” declared Saidee Isaacs as she pressed herself into a
corner of the leather cushions and pulled her hat down over her eyes.