He boxed the events since the signing of peace like a mariner going over
the compass points. He showed the trend of affairs commercial. He dwelt,
in his heavy, drawling voice, on traffic and trafficking—on the silent
embargo against all things German—on the bitter needs of the North
Countries in cotton and rubber and wool.

Fay led to the dye question and received a blank stare. The man, who
proved to be from Nottingham, did not handle print-goods or calicos or
hosiery. Not handling them, he knew nothing about them. He explained
confidentially that he was interested solely in brass hair-pins and
wire-goods. Fay saw no reason at all for keeping this a deep secret.

“That hair-pin drummer,” he told Saidee Isaacs as he knocked on the door
of her cabin and was admitted, “says there’s a train to Stavanger which
goes at daylight. He also declares that the big boats leave Arendal for
the States. What shall we do? Perhaps we’ll find Harry Raymond at
Arendal instead of Stavanger.”

“Can we try both?” she asked.

“I think so. We’ll go to the nearest big port—Arendal. If he isn’t
there, we’ll cross Norway during the day and try Stavanger. He had a
cockney stall with him. I’d know either man in a million. Harry has a
drawl like a music-hall performer. He’s an American crook who apes the
English. They always overdo it.”

She showed him her hat after smiling faintly. The plumes had dried and
were presentable. Her ruching was pressed and turned. Her shoes had been
touched up with the corner of a towel and some polish supplied by the
deck-steward.

He studied her hair—blue-black, coiled from right to left—before she
placed her hat on her head. Her lashes matched her hair to the
fraction-shade. Her olive eyes held the faint suggestion of the
Oriental—particularly in their inscrutable droop.

“You look splendid!” he declared with admiration. “I’m glad you changed
your mind about coming north. I think—candidly, we’re going to find out
something from Harry Raymond. He won’t talk to me—or tell me
anything—but he don’t know you. You have a clever way that’ll get
through his guard. Perhaps he’ll play Banker and Broker with you. It’s
an easy game to trim a gull with.”

“Gull?” Her brows raised to polite arches of inquiry at the argot.

“I mean pigeon,” he said, hardly making matters better. “He’ll play you
for one, if you act right and don’t overact.”

“You seem confident that we’ll run across him.”

“He only works the big ports and the fast boats. He’s sure to be in
Arendal or Stavanger. Or else he’s on the ocean.”

She rose from the bunk and switched out her light. “Let’s go on deck,”
she said, pressing open the door and glancing out. “There’s the coast of
Norway, over there—so the steward says. We’ll soon be in port.”

Fay leaned over the rail and studied the dark shadow toward which the
ship was plunging. He wondered what fortune lay in the path he had
chosen.

Events moved swiftly enough after the ship docked. Fay called a carriage
and was driven rapidly to the railroad station, where he learned that a
train would leave within ten minutes for Arendal.

Daylight, which came early, was breaking as the tiny locomotive puffed
into the great Skagerrack Port where boats could be taken for a score of
points—including the States.

One huge ship was in sight. Its long row of deck lights had not been
extinguished. Lighters were alongside loading coal and a general cargo.
A few all-night passengers were standing near the taffrail.

“She leaves at sun-down,” the station-master told Fay after he had
inquired. “You can book passage on Nordland Street.”

Fay turned toward the girl. “We’ll ride around,” he said, “and look over
the hotel registers. I’d know our friend Harry’s writing if I ever saw
it. There’ll be a Count or a Duke or an M.P. or a mere Lord in front of
it. He never played a small game.”

Their search, carried well into the afternoon, was almost without
result. One clerk recalled seeing such a couple as Fay described—a tall
Englishman with a monocle or smoked-glasses, and a cockney who wore as
many buttons as a coster-monger.

The direction which they had taken from the hotel might have been to the
railroad station or to the docks. Fay wasted time searching for a
definite clue. It was only when the hoarse blare of the great siren on
the ship announced its immediate departure that he acted on the last
chance.