Fay shook his head with emphasis. “I realize that the whole thing is
up,” he said feelingly. “I hate Scotland Yard, now! They sent me on a
venture filled with dangers for me, and none for them. They took a
chance that the package in the embassy’s safe was the cipher-key. They
didn’t know any more about it than I did. It’s proved! Do you think a
clever German chemist would have a key hidden in a pair of
smoked-glasses? He left them with the embassy for a gull. The true key,
if there was one, died with him.”

“Then Dutch Gus and the others were wrong?”

Fay raised his brows. “I hadn’t thought of that,” he said slowly. “It
does look queer. But a pair of smoked-glasses don’t answer the riddle.”

“You shouldn’t have thrown them into the sea.”

“You don’t think I was going to take anything like that back to Sir
Richard, do you?”

She rose and stood before him. Her hands were straight down at her
sides. Her upturned face was heated and burning. She flashed an inner
signal which he did not understand.

“I despise you now,” she said slowly. “You’re clever and you’re
keen-brained and you’re cool-headed, but you overlook the trifles. You
have failed a dozen times on account of trifles. You can’t see that
little things have vast importance, sometimes. The smoked-glasses were a
trifle. You threw them away before I knew what you were doing. Suppose
they turn out to be the cipher-key.”

Fay drew away from her a step. “Suppose they do,” he said. “We can’t
ever get them back. Why not quit arguing in a circle and come down to
facts? I want you to go to Stavanger with me. I need a pal, who is a
sticker. We’ll forget England and what happened there. I’ll never say I
was at Dartmoor. I can change my name and live the thing down. I want to
get away from the memory of that cell and those guards and the sneaking
servants of the law. I want the open places where I can see the stars.”

She softened her glance perceptibly. He swept her slender form. Her
skirt, her shoes, her waist and feather-dragging hat, were all
sea-soaked and mist-flattened. Her eyes and the jewels on her fingers
alone spoke the Saidee Isaacs of other days.

“Come on,” he said, snatching up her hand. “There’s a trail inland and a
wide world to walk in. Let’s find a hay-mow or barn and go to sleep.
We’ll feel better when we wake up. I’m sorry about the glasses, but I
hated the thing from the beginning and now I know I was right.”

She feared to temporize with him. He had one virtue which outweighed his
faults. She knew in his heart there was loyalty. He had never been known
to turn on a friend.

“I still hate you,” she said. “I’ll always hate you for what you did
with the glasses. Perhaps we can get them. I want to remember this
place.”

Turning, she stared out over the shelf of rock and widened her eyes for
landmarks. There was an island which loomed through the mist. There was
an opposite point of dark crags. The inlet at her left hand would be
marked on a good chart of that coast.

He went on up the pathway and waited for her. His coat was drawn over
his body. His cap was pulled far down upon his head. He twisted a button
with long white fingers which were slightly stained with oakum. It was
the brand of Dartmoor.

“We’ll go,” he said as she stepped to his side, “over the ridge and down
into the lowland. I’m dead for sleep. We better avoid the main roads
until I get my senses. Dutch Gus or some of the others of his gang may
have landed. They’ll notify the Germans. Come on, Saidee, buck up, and
don’t look so doleful!”

She flushed and followed him. He helped her now and then over the rough
places. They came to a cleft in the rock. Through this opening a vista
was to be had of a sloping highland which disappeared within the gray
mists which rose from a long, straight canal.

Fay pointed toward a windmill whose arms were still. A huge barn and
hay-rick showed at the junction of two fences. Cattle grazed on the damp
grass.

“We’ll make that,” he said, pointing toward the hay-mow. “I must have
sleep—I’m hardly myself.”

An Airedale, with an erect tail and a burr-clustered hide, came running
up to them as they reached the fence. He sniffed at Fay’s coat, then
stared at the girl with a wise cant to his head.

“He’ll stand watch,” said the cracksman. “I’ll bet he thinks we’re
refugees from Germany.”