“Ah,” said Fay, “then it was you?”

Saidee Isaacs bit her lower lip. “I had a hand in it,” she said. “But
you mustn’t think I went to Holland or anything like that. The party who
went there—failed. I don’t fail as a rule!”

Fay glanced keenly at her. She returned the stare bravely. Her breast
lifted and fell as she breathed with emotion. “I did what I could for
the Yard,” she added quickly. “I have the diagram of the embassy. I have
the little silver greyhound, which is to be your passport.”

“Is it effective?”

“Tremendously so! Why, everybody just makes way for you when you wear
it. It’s a magic talisman these days, Chester.”

Fay reached for the cake and poised a slice over his tea cup. He studied
the pattern on the little silver spoon. It was monogrammed “S. I.” The
cup was also marked with her initials.

“I like this place,” he said with naïveté. “I was worried all the time
that you would go clear down and out. And here you’re living like a
princess of the blood. How do you do it?”

Saidee Isaacs pushed back the chair and rose. She glanced down at Fay
with an intent expression. Her long, dark lashes gave a silken look to
her eyes.

“I’ll get the diagram,” she offered, moving toward the door which led to
the front of the house. “Don’t ask so many questions! Take what you
get!”

“One fine little girl,” he thought as he watched her vanishing form.
“But,” he added, munching on the cake with his chin lowered, “she’s
dangerous, and I know it. Wonder what she did to earn all this?”

Saidee reappeared, closed the door and laid an envelope upon the
sideboard. She sat down after pouring out more tea. She tapped the
envelope with her fingers, hastily tore across one end and dumped out a
folded piece of white paper and an object done up in thin yellow tissue.

“This is the silver greyhound,” she said, “which only King’s Couriers
are supposed to wear. You prowled this house tonight and opened my wall
safe. You could do that blindfolded. I paid five pounds for it, and
there’s only three hundred possible combinations.”

Fay showed professional concern as he took the silver greyhound from the
girl’s fingers and held it out appraisingly.

He pinned it to the right lapel of his tweed coat and leaned back. “Now
the map,” he said. “The little diagram the gay-cat got in Holland.”

“I told you to be careful with the slang, Chester. ‘Gay-cat’ is very bad
form. ‘Courier’ would be better.”

“Let me see it!”

Saidee opened the paper and laid it down between the two tea cups. It
was a well-done diagram of the main floor of a splendid house. The
streets were named. The locality of the safe was shown in red ink.
Beneath the diagram was a notation which Fay saw was in Saidee’s
handwriting—fine and precise.

“Read it,” he asked, straining his eyes.

“Oh, it goes on to say that a very wise little safecracker will find an
American strong-box with two dials and a dial-keister. The day door is
secured by a flat lock which probably can be picked. The safe stands on
a concrete and tile flooring. There is a space overhead hardly big
enough for a man to secrete himself. The sides of the safe are in plain
view of two streets.”

“Go on,” said Fay as Saidee Isaacs glanced up. “That’s your handwriting.
I still think you went to Holland.”

“Be careful! Don’t tell all that you think, Chester. You’ll spoil our
midnight party.”

“It’s almost a daylight one!”

She glanced at a pantry window. “Gray dawn,” she said musingly. “The
cold, gray dawn, Chester.”

“And time I’m going, I suppose,” he said, reaching and taking the
diagram. He held it before him and ran his eyes to left and right over
the paper. His glance was the keen darting one of a professional.

“This stairway?” he asked, pointing toward a series of shaded lines.
“Where does that lead?”