XIV

THE HOUSE OF THE LIONS


However much Fay had expected the brig and irons, he was mistaken in
both surmises.

The lieutenant-commander of the destroyer and MacKeenon were openly
solicitous regarding their captives’ welfare. The cabin assigned to
Saidee Isaacs was just off the ward-room. It had been used by an Admiral
during the years of the war. It was fitted with the simple, serviceable
things which are found on all his Majesty’s better ships—running hot and
cold water in bath and wash-stand—a bed instead of a bunk—white walls
and cork-tiled deck.

Fay was shown an ensign’s cabin which had recently been vacated. He
turned as he felt the powerful throbbing of the giant engines of the
destroyer. MacKeenon stood in the doorway with his legs braced across
the alley-way. The Scotch detective smiled dryly and regarded the
pockets of Fay’s overcoat with concern.

“A hae no doot,” he said, “that ye are armed. Mind passing over any
wicked thing in that direction? There’s much powder about.”

Fay dipped his right hand into his pocket and passed to MacKeenon the
little silver-plated revolver which Saidee Isaacs had given to him. The
inspector snapped it open and dropped the cartridges into the palm of
his right hand. “A better keep these,” he suggested. “Any more,
Chester?”

“Nothing,” said Fay.

“Now the package ye got from the embassy’s safe.” The request was almost
cheerful as if the inspector expected no trouble at all in this
connection. Fay stared at him and shook his head.

“I have no package,” he said.

“What, mon—no packet! Ye made considerable mess of the safe in Holland.
A hear from reliable sources that ye took the outer door, the day door
and the inner box like a blacksmith.”

Fay removed his overcoat, tossed his cap on the bunk, then stepped
toward MacKeenon.

“You can search me,” he offered. “I didn’t bungle that job—as you think.
I’m not going to talk with you until I see Sir Richard. I may be
misquoted. You well know that anything I say may be used against me.”

MacKeenon straightened himself, waited until the leaping destroyer had
taken the downswing of a long glide, then he tapped Fay’s pockets with
professional concern. He finished with the overcoat and the cap. His
lips wore a puzzled expression as he stepped back through the door.

“Ye gave the package to the girl?” he asked.

“See her! I’ll not talk and I don’t think she will. I got what I was
sent after!”

“Ye got it! Where is it?”

“In London—where Sir Richard is—I shall explain everything. Up to that
time and place, questions are useless, Mac.”

The inspector sniffed and ran his keen eyes over the cabin. He turned
and glanced up the alley-way.

“Come on deck when ye want to,” he said softly. “Ye’ll find oil-skins
and boots in the ward-room. We’re slithering toward the North o’ England
at a tremendous rate. We’ll be there, this time tomorrow. A’y’ll give ye
that long to think things over.”

Fay watched him disappear toward the bow of the destroyer. He sat down
and lowered his face in his hands. The noises of their swift passage
drove out all thoughts of escape. There were many alert men on the boat.
Discipline was stern and thorough. The trap had been well sprung. It was
the first stage of the journey back to Dartmoor.

He reviewed the series of events. It seemed that he had been gripped by
a relentless urging since the hour MacKeenon had stood in that
stone-lined courtyard at Dartmoor. There flashed over his brain the
swirl and surge of affairs. He thought of every little detail—the cipher
papers—the coming of Dutch Gus—the package in the embassy’s safe—the
smoked-glasses.

But one phase of the matter was illuminating. The others were blurred
and destroying. Saidee Isaacs had cleared herself in a satisfactory
manner. She was shown up in loyal colors. He no longer had any doubt of
her.