“SCHUCKER—MAINTZ—WERKE—FRANKFORT ON MAIN—BERLIN”

Underneath this heading was an even row of ten-point letters, the first
of which ran:

“aaahhhsssaaacccstopxxxgggssstttstopmmmwwwccc
pppfffbbbstopxxxzzzccceeesssuuukkkwwwssstttst
opyyynnnvvvfffssshhhstopmmmtttnnnpppwwwfffccc”

Fay counted thirty-two rows of similar letters, between the lines of
which were double spaces of blank white. He turned to the box as Sir
Richard replaced the sheet and snapped down the lid.

“They’re all like that,” said the chief bitterly. “It’s a clever, clever
cipher. A cipher that runs through ten reams of paper. There’s all of
six hundred thousand letters in the thing. There’s at least thirty or
forty thousand words. The whole will give us the formulae to such dyes
as Alizarine Sapphire and Carbanthrene Blue.”

“Might be the names of sleeping cars,” said Fay.

“They’re much-wanted dyes! The man who was slain in Switzerland said the
formulae to these two colors would be found in the boxes. They may be
there, but we haven’t found them!”

MacKeenon lowered a blind and turned. He sniffed with the scent of a
baffled hound. The pouches at the side of his cheeks dropped, his teeth
showed beneath curled gums. Fay wheeled upon him suddenly and was
startled at the inspector’s appearance. It was as if the old dog had
snarled in silence.

“We’ll continue,” broke in Sir Richard as he shoved the box upon the
table. “The game isn’t lost! There’s a key to the cipher in the
embassy.”

“Have you tried everything?” asked Fay. “How about these cipher experts?
I’ve heard they can cipher anything. There’s a Russian in Dartmoor who
used to talk to the whole gallery by tapping on his bars. All you had to
know was the key-word and deduct the numbers it represented from the
numbers he sent. The quotient would be the message.”

“We’ve tried that,” snapped Sir Richard. “Believe me, Fay, that was the
first thing tried. It’s the Nihilist key-word cipher! Fifty of the
keenest brains in Europe and America have worked on this thing. It does
not follow Bacon’s biliteral cipher or Poe’s cryptogram. It has some of
the marks of an old Italian cipher used in the time of Pope Alexander.
It isn’t that! It has already driven one professor of mathematics mad.
He cross-indexed it and tried it backward. He found a queer average in
the repetition of certain letters. They followed no sane rule. For that
reason he went insane. More may go mad if this thing isn’t solved. It
represents the final triumph over Germany—the winning of the commercial
war which is upon us!”

Fay drew his head back into the shadow. He still retained the ringing
timbre of Sir Richard’s voice. The energetic chief of the Intelligence
Division had once been on a mission to the States. He had learned much
that was American on that visit.

“Damnit!” he heard Sir Richard blurt. “We’re not children! We have
defeated the Germans on the field of battle. Why can’t we solve a simple
cipher?”

“What did you pay for it?” Fay shot the question out of the shadow and
watched its effect on Sir Richard’s features.

“Pay for it? What do you mean, Fay?”

“What did you pay that man in Switzerland?”

“Ten thousand pounds.”

“And the fellow in Holland?”

“He died too soon to receive his share. The money went to the general
funds.”

Fay crossed his legs and glanced at the slender shape of the boots he
wore. “I think you have been gulled,” he said with the ghost of a smile.
“I think that cipher in the boxes is a bum steer, if you know what that
means. You tossed away ten thousand pounds—like that!” Fay threw out his
hand expressively.

Sir Richard blinked both eyes. The frown died from his face, wrinkle by
wrinkle. He leaned back in his chair, thrust his knees against the edge
of the table and said, half to Fay, half to MacKeenon:

“Mac thought the same thing! You’re both wrong. The thing was tested
before the money was paid. The agent who completed the transaction in
Switzerland made no mistake. He went to extreme length in the matter.”