The actor in him came to the fore. He thought the part he was playing.
It was no matter of studied gestures and halting steps. He was English
of the English! He strode into the town’s better part with the step of a
conqueror. He looked the British tourist to perfection. His plaid cap,
his well-fitting overcoat, his square-toed shoes were his passport.

He modified his walk to a saunter. His eyes fixed upon nothing in
general, but they saw everything with that vividness which is given to
prisoners on parole and those who have been denied the wine of life and
living.

The feeling still remained within him that somewhere in that
stolid-faced crowd a shadow lurked. It was the same sinister hand which
had come out with him through the guarded gates of Dartmoor. It was the
long arm of the Yard, reaching, reaching. He felt its fingers and turned
swiftly. He went on. No one of all that throng showed a familiar face.

He retraced his steps by rounding a square and doubling back almost to
the little hotel. He searched each figure, in passing. He saw few
English in that throng.

Spies, commercial agents of the seven governments, oversea soldiers on
furlough, interned or invalided troops—the backwash and the riffraff of
a war that was over—filled the ancient streets.

He threw off the feeling of being shadowed, and took the shady side of a
broad avenue. It would lead him past the embassy wherein was the
strong-box and the key to the dye cipher.

More bold, now, and decidedly English, he advanced with head thrown
back, and that keen smile upon his lips which brought answering warmth
from the passers-by.

It was nice to be alive upon that glad day. The bright sun had doubled
its grandeur when freed from the grip of the morning fog. The long lines
of trees, the well-clipped hedges, and the rare bulbs of Holland were
out in their spring clothing.

“Gad!” said Fay to himself. “This is living!”

He drew out his cigarette-case, removed a cigarette, tapped it on the
palm of his hand and struck a match with a quick jerk of his heel. It
came to him, as he inhaled the rich Turkish fumes, that the action of
lighting a match on his heel was foreign to the country of Holland and
even to the English. It was a flaw in his disguise!

“Trifles!” he said, half aloud. “That was a slip. I must be careful.”

He went on and crossed the avenue at the square below the embassy. He
drank in its details as he passed along. He photographed the front so
that he could have made a drawing of every detail—the long windows, the
high marble steps, the flunky in purple and knee-breeches, the insignia
near the great door, the semi-basement with its iron-grilled apertures.

A crossing above the embassy’s building drew him back over the avenue
and down through the low houses of a side street. He found a passage
that passed parallel to the brick barrier which fenced in the
ambassador’s grounds. He estimated the height of this wall as he hurried
by it. He turned the corner, and bounded the building as he glided out
into the avenue and retraced his steps toward the hotel. He now had a
plan of the project. It looked like clear sailing in the night to come.

A back glance, as he lighted a cigarette by striking the match upon a
stone, showed a figure descending the embassy’s steps and limping in his
direction. He waited and dragged at the cigarette. The man who passed
was English. He had been through the war.

“I say,” said Fay, hurrying after the cripple. “Would you mind putting a
chap straight? Is that the Hôtel de Ville?”

Fay pointed his cigarette at the embassy building as the soldier turned.

“Is it?” he repeated. “I hope I haven’t troubled you.”

“Blyme no!” answered the Tommy. “Hit’s the royal muckers wot do a man
dirt, it his! Neutral embassy, wot? Wot satisfaction his there in that?
Says I, to myself, I’ll look up my brother ’Arry who was lost at Wipers.
Took by the Germans, ’e was! They told me to go to Switzerland, they
did. ’Ow ham I goin’ to Switzerland on three bob, six?”

Fay fell into stride with the soldier, and walked at least five squares
with him. He twisted the conversation around from ’Arry to a general
outline of the floor plan of the embassy and the number of guards. He
left his man near the British embassy. The two sovereigns he pressed
into a protesting palm were well earned, although the cockney was
unaware of it.

“Hope you find ’Arry,” said the cracksman, hurrying toward the hotel.

The information he had gained coincided, in the main, with the diagram
which Saidee Isaacs had given to him. The additional details of the day
guards, and the disposition of the embassy clerks, were sufficient to
lay out the entire plan of action.