III

THE CIPHER


Chester Fay watched the stout form of the Chief of Division as he
crossed the room, tapped lightly on the door which led to the hallway,
then waited with his fingers toying with a heavy, gold chain which
crossed a vest the color of old wine.

MacKeenon turned the knob and came into the room. He closed and locked
the door at Sir Richard’s suggestion. He sniffed the air of the room,
glanced keenly toward Fay, then said:

“Ye have come to an understanding?”

“We have!” declared Sir Richard. “Fay is with us. You know what that
means? We are bound to get the key and trick the Germans.”

“A’ hae noo doot ov it,” said the Scotch detective, rubbing his hands
and peering for a second time at the cracksman. “A verra gude mon—but a
wee bit reckless.”

Sir Richard laughed pleasantly. “Oh, we’re all that way—more or less. I
guess it was recklessness that broke the Hindenburg Line. It would never
have been done if we had counted the cost.”

Fay moved around the end of the table and stood by the three black
boxes. He studied the situation from every angle. It was possible to
escape. It was not too late to go back on his bargain with Sir Richard.
A swift rush, the bowling over of the two detectives, and a plunge
through the shrubbery of the house would carry him to westward, where
quiet, shaded lamps and reaching aisles of mansions would offer freedom
for all time.

He waited to hear more. The gripping mystery of the cipher clutched and
stilled his desire for liberty. There would be other chances at a later
hour.

There was something of the American in Sir Richard. Fay watched the two
detectives come across the room, take seats at the table and then pull
toward themselves the locked boxes.

“We’ll begin at the beginning,” said the chief, glancing up at the
ceiling and then into Fay’s eyes. “Take a seat, Chester, right here! I
want to explain to you about the cipher and the dye business.”

Fay turned and gripped the ornate arms of a teakwood chair which had
certainly come from India in one of the old hulks. He turned this chair
so that the light from the overhead cluster would shine in the faces of
the two detectives and leave his in shadow. It was an old trick!

He sat down, pulled up the knees of his tweed trousers and leaned
slightly forward in an attitude of attention. Sir Richard had already
drawn a small key from his pocket. This key was evidently the one to the
three locks of the boxes.

“What do you know about German dyes?” snapped the chief as he held out
the key. “Know anything at all, Fay?”

“I’ve heard of fast-black.”

“Is that all?”

“About all, Chief. I suppose the Germans have gone deeper into the
subject than most men. I thought the States had made some new
discoveries. You see I didn’t get much chance to read in the last place
I was in. The subject of reading for occasional offenders should be
called to the attention of the Home Secretary.”

“I’ll mention it,” said Sir Richard dryly. “I might add that the Home
Secretary and I have spent three months on this damn cipher.”

Fay leveled his shaded eyes toward the boxes. He glanced at Sir Richard.
There was a frown on the chief’s face and an angry pucker about his
strong mouth.

“Three months, on a cipher! Let me see it, Chief.”

Sir Richard turned toward MacKeenon. “Better get up and stand by the
windows when I open these boxes,” he said. “We can’t be too careful.
There is a billion pounds involved in this!”

Fay was impressed for the first time since leaving the sombre walls of
Dartmoor. Sir Richard was no man to exaggerate. He might have had the
treasure of the Diamond Clique as he reached, pulled a box close up to
his side, inserted the key and slowly lifted the sheet-metal lid.

The cracksman leaned out of the shadow and into the light. Sir Richard
laid the key upon the polished surface of the table, thrust his fingers
inside the box and drew out a sheet of white paper. He held this sheet
so that Fay could read the top lines. They were: