XIII

THE LONG ARM


Saidee Isaacs lifted her hand from Fay’s arm, swung with the movement of
the ship, then hurried forward toward the direction of the Ladies’
Saloon where the game of Bridge was scheduled.

Fay watched her vanish in the glow of the deck-lights. He saw a door
open and then close. A shaft of mellow fire struck out onto the rail and
the crisscrossed waves. It vanished. The long deck was deserted.

The cracksman crammed his hands into the side pockets of his overcoat,
fished out a cigarette and lighted it by the quick scratch of a match on
his heel. His eyes were useless over the period of a minute. Gradually
sight and clear vision came to him. He removed the cigarette and stared
at its glowing end. He pasted it to his lower lip and started around to
the port side of the ship.

Passengers were seated there to the number of a score or more. They were
crouched in sheltered chairs or between the ventilators and the outswung
boats. A regulation was still in effect regarding these. German mines,
so profusely distributed during the period of the war, might be
encountered at any moment. Many ships had been lost in the same waters.

Fay reached midship and the shelter of a ladder which led upward to the
hurricane deck. He drew out his watch, held it sideways toward a
luminous port-hole and stared at the dial. Saidee Isaacs had ample time
to arrange the setting for the bridge game. It should be well in
progress.

He moved slowly forward as if seeking shelter. He reached the first of
the port-holes which marked the Ladies’ Saloon. These were partly
curtained with many-colored silks.

Glancing inside, Fay saw a group of passengers about an upright piano. A
singer stood at one end of the piano. She held a sheet of music in her
hand. Beyond her, and close up to the sheathing of the cabin, an alcove
showed within which sat Saidee Isaacs, a stout Russian, the cockney
stall and Harry Raymond, whose back was turned from Fay’s view.

Fay glided to the nearest port-hole, leaned back, surveyed the deck,
then tossed his cigarette away and gradually thrust his head toward the
round disc of the port-glass.

The view inside held all the charm of eavesdropping. The warm colors of
the Saloon, the tinkling notes of the piano, the woman’s rather faded
voice—that echoed within the surge and hiss of the sea—wove a spell.

Fay narrowed his eyes and studied the cards which were held in the
sharper’s hand. He glanced at the table and the exposed dummy. He
mentally caught the fortunes of the game by the expression of rage on
the face of the Russian and the soft, slow smile of Saidee Isaacs.

The points were shilling ones and the stakes rather high. Harry Raymond
had evidently doubled the shilling point on every occasion. He played
into his partner’s hand, took the lead and finished the round by
collecting twelve out of thirteen tricks.

The Russian, who had dealt and lost, stared at the sharper with a savage
bristling of his beard. Saidee glanced up and into Fay’s eyes where they
were glued to the glass of the port-hole. She made no sign save to rub
her brow thoughtfully. Fay studied the sharper’s back and the great bows
of the glasses he wore. There was no chance to peer through the lenses.

The game went on with Harry Raymond and his partner winning as if the
backs of the cards were open books to them.

Fay, himself, wondered at this exhibition of uncanny skill. He furrowed
his brows and drew his head away from the port-hole. He went over all
the things he had ever heard concerning card-manipulation. A vision came
to him of a table at “Jimmy’s,” in London, and a conversation between
two deep-sea card players. They had told of dealing seconds, and holding
out, and even of buying up the entire stock of cards on a ship and
supplying a purser with marked decks.

The sharpers had made no false moves. The cards had most certainly been
well examined by Saidee Isaacs and the Russian. They were a popular
back, extremely hard to mark. The trick, if trick there was, lay in the
smoked-glasses worn by Harry Raymond!

Satisfied of this fact, Fay started around the deck in order to divert
suspicion from himself. One or two passengers had passed him while he
was peering through the port-hole.

He reached the great bay of the combined bridge and pilot-house. A fog
was sweeping in from the sea. It lay over the plunging bow of the ship
like a blanket at the foot of a bed. Toward this murky veil the course
was being held.