“Did you turn the trick, Chester?”

He uncoiled his fingers from the automatic revolver and laid a finger
across his lips. He nodded with a faint smile as her hand came to him
impulsively.

“I got it,” he said. “Dutch Gus was on the steamer coming in. I couldn’t
let him take the safe. As it was, he came near getting away with it. Sit
down, Saidee, and I’ll tell you what happened.”

He waited as she turned toward the bed and glanced at it. Her chin swung
back and upward. Her eyes shimmered over with a moist glaze.

“We must leave here, right away,” she said. “If you got the cipher-key
Sir Richard sent you for, my work and your work is done. We’re fearfully
rich and respected. Why, Chester, the police will bow every time they
see us.”

Fay lowered his voice as he said:

“Not the ones in this town. You’re right—let’s get out of here. Have you
any luggage?”

“Just a small bag.”

“Go back to your room and get it.”

“It’s outside your door. I heard you come in, and dressed.” She glanced
at her reflection in the mirror over the wash place. She tilted her hat
as he crossed the room, removed the tools from his pockets and breast,
opened the little surgical bag and dumped them inside.

“I’ve got everything,” he said, turning. “We’ll tiptoe downstairs and
make for the Schwartz Canal. There we can wait till I get a line on the
boats.”

“MacKeenon and another are in town. Hadn’t you better try and connect
with them for protection? It’s wonderful to have the police with you,
Chester.”

Fay darted her a sudden look of suspicion. He had not yet learned to
trust the police. They were his natural enemies. The five years in
Dartmoor had not quenched his old fire. She sensed this as he dropped
his hand to his pocket and turned his face toward the door.

“They were only helping you,” she said. “Sir Richard was so interested
in the cipher, he thought, perhaps, you might need assistance. That was
all there—”

“We’ll drop that subject, Saidee. Drop it now. Sir Richard is like them
all—he can’t be trusted. He told me I could come here alone—scot-free.
He’d get better results if he’d trust a man. We fellows from the inside
are not as black as some people imagine we are.”

“But this cipher-key is so fearfully important, Chester. Where have you
got it?”

Fay tapped his left overcoat pocket. “Right there!” he said, glancing
from the door to her. “Right where it stays, too, Saidee, till I see Sir
Richard.”

“What is it like?”

“I didn’t open the package. I’m not going to. Let Sir Richard do
that—after I have a word or two with him.”

She frowned, with faint lines showing at the corners of her mouth.

“It might be something we can memorize,” she suggested.

“It’ll keep.”

“But Dutch Gus and all those Germans are after the clue. Why, Chester,
you don’t know how I’ve worked—in Geneva and Zurich, and in Austria
before it surrendered. Three or four men were killed over the cipher.
You may lose the key. Let me see it.”

He reached upward and buttoned his overcoat by twisting the buttons with
his finger. He lifted the surgical bag and turned toward the candle.

“When you explain everything,” he said seriously, “we’ll be pals again.
As it is now—you are too close to Scotland Yard and the hounds to suit
me. You knew when I was coming out of—that place. You knew I was with
Sir Richard in London. You knew I was bound for Holland. You got here
almost as soon as I did. You left a mighty nice little house in the West
End. Who paid for that house? Who bought you that motor? You say, ‘Be
pals,’ but you are not the Saidee Isaacs I used to know. Come on! We’re
going out of this trap. The police may hammer on the street door any
minute. Dutch Gus ripped the big box in the embassy wide open. He made
more ‘rumble’ than an old-time German Prince plundering a French
chateau.”