VI

EDGED TOOLS


The grip of a London dawn was in the air as Fay rounded the hedge,
within the foliage of the house next door to Saidee Isaacs’. He found
his tweed overcoat, into the pockets of which he crammed his gloves.

He went out then into the silent lane and struck toward the east with
long swinging strides which carried him past constables, early morning
workers and the heavy lorries which were streaming Londonward.

His eyes were sanguine and held high. His elbows bent at his sides. The
absence of sleep from the moment he had been awakened by the turnkey at
Dartmoor was unnoticed. He was free! The world was wide! And there was a
woman in it for him!

He thought of Saidee Isaacs as he hurried along. She had come up out of
the underworld. She had prospered and gained in strength and beauty.
More than these two things, she represented the entire sex to him. He
knew that the five years of prison life had glorified women and lowered
men in his estimation.

The mystery of her position, her close touch with the Yard, her
willingness to send him on the mission to Holland, which was bound to
prove dangerous, caused him concern as he reached Hyde Park Corner and
passed the iron-grilled fence of Apsley House.

The City roared a warning. The rattle of busses and cabs over the
pavements clashed with his thoughts. It was all new and terrifying to
one who had never known fear. He felt, instinctively, that he was being
followed. He fled eastward without glancing behind him. He reached the
entrance to Berkeley Street and turned northward.

The two emotions struggled with his soul. Five years of silence and
solitude had left their mark. The constant eyes of the guards in the
prison still were there. He felt them in the center of his brain. They
haunted, despite his attempt to dismiss their presence. His early
buoyancy died.

He was passing through the experience that every released prisoner
knows. He was fagged from lack of sleep. The excitement of the game to
come had worn off. There remained only weariness and dejection.

A park, hedged about with plane trees and towered over by neat
boxed-houses, brought him to the realization of his locality. North, lay
Brooke Street and Oxford. A mews was at his right, between two mansions.
He took this narrow passage, passed hostlers grooming horses, and
emerged upon a street which would lead him to Soho Square and Burlington
Arcade.

He came, with the same swift glide, to a coffee house under the sign of
a brown cup. There he wheeled and flashed a defiant glance back and over
the street. He searched each face that passed him. He swept the throng.
No one of all of them was familiar. He was not being followed. The
thought had been the distillate of a tired brain.

Braced on two cups of black coffee, and quieted by the dragging fumes of
a cigarette, he went on into the city and was swallowed up by the three
who toiled and cheated and gamed out the day.

The alchemy of sleep—in a Soho hotel noted for its cleanliness—removed
the last vestige of weariness from his mind. He glanced at his watch as
he called for cold water and plenty of it. He bathed and dressed
hurriedly, then took stock of his possessions.

There were the cuff-links and the pin and the cigarette-case which
MacKeenon had brought to Dartmoor. There were the tweed coat, the little
silver greyhound, and the bank notes and gold. More than these was
Saidee’s diagram of the embassy. He studied this before opening his
door.

The plan flashed over his brain. He memorized the details like a
draughtsman reading a white-print. He closed his eyes and repeated each
item. Then, and naturally, he struck a match on his heel, held out the
blazing paper and dropped its ashes along the narrow hallway where they
would never be noticed.

Keen-brained from the sleep, and with eight hours ahead of him, he
plunged into the opening meshes of the game. There was much to do in
that short time. A plan had already mapped itself out. It would not do
to go to Holland without every necessary tool for the operation of
opening the strong-box. These, he knew, were to be found at a certain
shop on Ludgate Street.

He strolled north and east through familiar lanes. He stopped now and
then, and glanced at the windows. His actions, though natural, had one
purpose. The Yard had let him go free. And yet, he knew, there were
serious-faced young men about who were waiting for him. It was not in
the cards that Sir Richard and MacKeenon would remain passive. Every
inspector from that dingy house near the Embankment had received orders
to watch out for any overt act on the part of Chester Fay, just out and
dangerous.