“What have I got to do with all this?” he repeated, holding forth his
hands. “You’ve released me—on parole. You’ve brought me to London.
You’ve mentioned boxes and ciphers and dye-stuff. You want something,
and yet behind me stands an officer of the law, and outside, walks
another. If you want something, from me, why don’t you let me go?”

The shot was delivered through clean, white teeth. The smile faded from
the cracksman’s lips. He leaned slightly forward and locked Sir
Richard’s eyes with a glance that caused the chief of the bureau to
recoil slightly.

“Yes!” said Fay hotly. “Yes, Sir Richard—oh, I know you! You’ve gyved
me! You hounded me! You threw me in that hell-hole called Dartmoor with
the wooden-minded screws walking before my cell till I thought I would
go mad. You saw to it that I was sent away for the limit! Now you want
something, and you won’t trust me away from your coppers!”

“Coppers?” asked Sir Richard removing the mask and dropping it to the
table. “What are coppers, Fay?”

“Police! Screws! Guards! Turnkeys! Hell-hounds!”

Sir Richard stared at MacKeenon and motioned toward the door.

“Go out, Mac,” he said, “and leave us to ourselves. I think that Fay and
I can come to an understanding better that way.”

The inspector hesitated, walked to the door, turned the key and passed
out into the hallway.

The door closed as Sir Richard rubbed his hands, eyed Fay with interest,
and leaned back in the chair.

“Now,” he said, “we are alone. I’ve no doubt that you can get away. In
fact I’d hate to match myself against you, Fay. We have your record, you
know.”

“A lot of it isn’t true!” said Fay bitterly. “You people are always
making up things. I didn’t turn that trick in Hatton Gardens. Why, do
you think I’d work without gloves?”

“I didn’t think so, Chester,” said Sir Richard with a faint smile. “I
really didn’t, but I guess you did!”

“Bah!”

“Oh, now, don’t take it that way. The strong-box was opened—without
trace. Up over the transom was a trace—your right thumb print. It was a
nice clean job, Fay. I always thought that Saidee Isaacs was with you
that night.” The chief leaned slightly forward. He watched the
cracksman’s eyes for a clue. There was none. Fay returned the stare
without expression. He said staunchly:

“Miss Saidee Isaacs had no more to do with that job than you had or I
had. I don’t even know where Hatton Gardens is.”

“That’s enough! You know and I know. You’ve got the cunning of your
tribe—admit nothing and deny everything. But I’ve taken an interest in
you—a personal one. Things have come up—”

Sir Richard glanced at the door and then at the three boxes. He crossed
his legs and drummed the table. His brow furrowed as he reached forward
and fingered the velvet mask.

“Come closer, Fay,” he said confidentially. “around here.”

Fay was frankly suspicious. He turned sharply and stared at the windows.
He eyed the door behind which he sensed that MacKeenon would be
crouching. He wheeled and rested his hands on the table. He leaned
forward until his face was very close to Sir Richard’s.

“We can talk just as well in this position,” he said without moving his
drawn lips. “Now, what are you getting at, chief?”

“I thought that Saidee Isaacs was in it,” said Sir Richard. “I’ll take
my statement back. But you were, and I’m glad of it.”

Fay rubbed his wrists and stared at his oakum-stained nails. He dropped
his cuffs and stood back. He waited with fast beating heart. The man
before him was fencing like a clever fiend. He already had drawn speech
where silence was golden. Fay remembered with a pang that the Hatton
Gardens affair was not the only one he had been guilty of perpetrating
in the Metropolitan District of London. There was a little matter of
turning a museum off in Kensington Gardens. There was the Monica affair
where a diamond salesman had lost a pint of uncut stones.

Sir Richard guessed what was passing in the cracksman’s mind. He smiled
with sudden warmth. His head came forward as his right hand reached out.
“You think this is a police trap, Fay,” he said sincerely. “It isn’t at
all. It’s an attempt to call upon the highest talent in the world—in his
own particular line. We all have specialties. Mine is trying to raise
better dahlias than my neighbor. Yours is opening strong-boxes which
American safe-makers have branded as burglar-proof. That big crib in
Hatton Gardens was an American box, wasn’t it?”