The ship came to a stop with a popping of safety-valves and steam
pluming from the pipe aft her funnel. The captain leaned from the ledge
of the wheel-house, grasped a stay, and shouted to the lieutenant who
had skillfully maneuvered the destroyer to a point on the port waist
after rounding the ship’s stern.

“What do you want?” rolled over the waves.

The lieutenant lowered his speaking-trumpet and turned to the man in the
plaid overcoat. They both were bathed in the yellow light which streamed
from the actinic fog-projector mounted on top of the pilot-house of the
ship.

The commander of the destroyer turned, wiped the dripping end of his
trumpet with a bare palm, and shouted:

“We want two of your passengers. You got our wireless? We had
hell—finding you. You know the two?”

“The woman is here!” hoarsely boomed the captain. “We can’t find the
man, yet.”

The lieutenant turned to the figure at his side. They both dipped and
rose with the movement of the destroyer. The crew were on deck. Faces
appeared at the head of the engine-room companion. Two forms crouched at
the seven-inch bow gun.

“I’m coming aboard!” shouted the commander. “Hold your headway—no more!
Give her quarter speed! We’ll see about that fellow!”

Saidee Isaacs grasped Fay’s sleeve. “Get into the boat,” she said,
pointing toward the ladder which led to the upper deck. “Hurry,
Chester!”

Fay pocketed the revolver, shot a final glance at the mute figure of the
sharper in the cabin, then he leaped for the ladder. Up this he went
until he had reached the upper-deck. He started aft, keeping in the
shelter of the boats and ventilators. He stopped and drew himself into a
narrow alley-way.

Three seamen were casting off a bo’swain’s ladder. They turned and
stared forward as the mate and the captain loomed through the gloom.

A spot-light from the destroyer swung over the ship’s upper rails and
brought out every detail.

“Here he is,” said the first officer. “Yes, this is the man we want.”

Fay bowed as he stepped from the alley-way. “What do you want with me?”
he asked.

The captain pointed toward the destroyer with a steady finger.

“They want you,” he said heavily. “England wants you for some reason.
The war is over, but England rules this sea. I’ve got to give you
up—young fellow.”

“It’s an outrage!” said Fay. “This is a Norwegian ship. I claim the
protection of your flag.”

The captain motioned for the crew to lower the bo’swain’s ladder. “The
lieutenant-commander will be aboard presently,” he said. “You can talk
to him. You’re a King’s messenger, aren’t you?”

Fay showed the silver greyhound by turning back the flap of his
overcoat.

“Who is the lady?” asked the captain, fishing in the side-pocket of his
pea-jacket and bringing forth a yellow wireless tissue. “This says a
woman and a man who wears the insignia of the King’s couriers. She’s the
one in the hat with purple feathers—isn’t she?”

“You’ll have to ask her,” said Fay, loyally. “I claim your full
protection!”

The captain replaced the tissue and leaned upon the rail. A small-boat,
which had been nested with others on the gray flush-deck of the
destroyer, was dancing over the waves. In the stern of this boat the
lieutenant and the man in the plaid overcoat sat. Two seamen bent to the
oars. The boat reached the ladder. It lifted and fell. It steadied as
the commander leaped the distance and grasped the lower end of the
ladder. The silent man followed him nimbly enough. They came over the
rail.

Fay moved forward and stared into the man’s face. He recognized
MacKeenon.

“Weil,” said the inspector, “this is a deep pleasure. Ye should o’
expected me about this time. Why, mon, the trail ye left was a verra
broad one! A hae no doot ye thought ye were clever.”