She twisted her rings and glanced over the farm. There was nobody in
sight. A pale feather of smoke rose from a chimney. Pans and churns
stood outside the kitchen of a stone house. It was a picture of Holland
comfort set in a winding mist.

Fay reached the hay-mow and pointed toward an opening. “Crawl in there,”
he said. “I’ll find another suite. Wake me when you wake. I must have
sleep.”

She laughed almost hysterically. “With these rings?” she asked turning
toward the farm-house. “Are we safe?”

“In Holland, yes,” yawned Fay, covering his mouth with his right hand.
“They don’t lock the doors in this country—an old crook told me who
ought to know. Good-night, Saidee!”

He stooped, patted the dog, then rounded the hay-mow. There was a second
opening which had evidently been made by cattle feeding. There were
marks of hoofs about it. Fay crawled within the hay, rolled over,
covered his face with his arm and started reviewing the events of the
day. He dozed with half-thoughts trooping through his brain. He woke,
hours later, turned on his side, listened, then backed out from his
cramped position. The mist had cleared. The stars were out. A light
shone in the farm-house window. The dog was still on guard.

Fay rubbed his eyes and rounded the hay-mow.

Saidee Isaacs’s shoes were all he saw at first. He seized a foot and
shook it gently. She squirmed out to him, sat erect, then glanced back
toward the opening.

“Get my hat,” she said. “I hope you’re satisfied,” she added hotly. “I
didn’t sleep a wink. I waited for you all afternoon.”

“Like a good pal,” he smiled.

“No—like a fool!”

He shrugged his shoulders. “Politics and crime,” he said, “make strange
companions. I’m feeling fit, now, and you’re ready to fight. Let’s go on
to the nearest town, get some coffee and whatever else they have, then
take the trail to Stavanger.”

“You can go to Stavanger! I’m going to London—first train! I’ve a house
there—a motor—and self-respect. If I follow you, I’ll find myself in
the—in another hay-mow.”

He watched her attempts to pin her hat on her head. She jabbed the only
remaining hat-pin through the crown at least a score of times. She
tightened her lips as she stared at him.

“What are you laughing at?” she asked suddenly. “It isn’t a bit funny.
I’m supposed to have some self-respect. I think I’ve lost it all.”

Fay crammed his hands deep within his pockets and bent his knees. He
shook his head slightly. There was the thin ghost of a smile on his
face.

“Oh, say now!” he said. “It’s better to wake up in a pile of hay than in
a stony cell. I thought I was back in Dartmoor till I smelled the
clover.”

She lowered her hands from her hat and stared at her rings. Her fingers
strayed over her skirt and finished by a swift brush at the hem. She
straightened and tried to return his smile.

“I’m hungry!” she said savagely. “I’m hungry and I don’t care who knows
it. Let’s go to that farm-house and knock. I’ll kill you for this!”

Fay burst into an uproar of mirth. “Lady Isaacs, and look at you!” he
retorted. “Suppose Sir Richard should see you now!”

She glanced at her shoes ruefully. She stamped one foot, then stared at
the dog. Her eyes swung upward toward Fay’s lips.

“I insist,” she said, “that we go to that house and get something to
eat. I must wash my hands and brush myself off.”

“I’ll go, Saidee. You stay right here. It wouldn’t do for both of us to
be seen at this time of night. I’ll say I was wrecked on the coast. Then
we can go on into some town.”

Fay swung and started off toward the light in the farm-house. He was
preceded by the Airedale, who barked once, leaped up the steps and
scratched on the kitchen-door.

A broad-faced Hollander of the better sort peered out. To him, Fay
offered two shillings for sandwiches. The man was joined by a woman who
understood some English. She pressed back the shillings, took command,
beckoned Fay inside the neatest kitchen he had ever seen, and there
bustled about until a package of food was wrapped up and handed to him.