“Down to a basement.”

“What’s in it?”

“Rooms, where some of the embassy’s staff spend the day. There’s no one
there at night. The guards are outside. One watchman stays by the safe.
He usually sleeps from three to four-thirty. He gets coffee, then, from
a woman who brings it to him.”

Fay glanced at her without betraying his mood.

“This packet Sir Richard told me about?” he asked. “This cipher’s key,
done up in paper with string around it and a name across one corner, is
where, Saidee?”

“On a top shelf in the keister. You’ll have to go through the day-door,
the outer door and the keister door before you reach it.”

Fay arched his brows and leaned over toward her. “What’s upstairs?” he
inquired.

“More rooms and offices. Sometimes the embassy’s staff work all night in
the front chambers. You can usually tell by a light in the front. If
there’s no light then the staff has completed its work and gone home.”

“Very precise, Saidee. You’re clearing up things, nicely. Also, you’ve
been there for the Yard. Nothing on this earth could make me believe
that you haven’t.”

“Finish your tea,” she said, “and come into the other room.”

Fay pocketed the diagram and fingered the little silver greyhound as he
rose and followed Saidee Isaacs through the doorway.

She stood near the divan but did not motion for him to sit down. Her
eyes fastened upon his tweed cap close by her own. She gathered her lips
into a sympathetic pucker as she asked:

“Have you any money?”

Fay tapped his trousers pocket. “Plenty,” he said lightly. “I’ve money
and more money coming. The clinking quid, Saidee! Remember how we went
after it, once?”

“We took the wrong road, Chester.” She turned and stared at him. Her
eyes opened and studied his silver-gray hair. His keen, white features
and rounded chin brought her over the years and then back again.

“You promise me,” she asked, “that you will go straight? That you will
get a sleep at some respectable hotel and meet whom you are to meet
tonight? That you will remember me on your trip to Holland?”

Fay reached and picked up his cap. He remembered that his overcoat was
beneath the hedge outside the window. There was one other matter. He
moved close to her side and touched the sleeve of her bathrobe.

“Saidee,” he inquired in a deadly level voice, “when did you see Dutch
Gus?”

He had expected a surprise. Her arm grew rigid. Her head turned and
flashed the jewels of the necklace till they dazzled his eyes. The olive
purity of her face changed to a flushing rage. She swished around,
jerked her arm from him and shot a shimmer of fire from beneath her dark
lashes.

“Dutch Gus! That man? He followed me to Holland! Now you know! He
queered my mission for the Yard!”

“Queered it?”

Saidee Isaacs paced the floor of the room. Her eyes shone tawny and
fire-laden as she came up to Fay and grasped his shoulder.

“Promise me you will get him!”

“Sure! Where is he?”

“In London, somewhere. He’s in with a mob of Germans and Austrians who
are after the dye cipher. They found out where I was going—why I was
going to Holland. They didn’t have the nerve to attempt the safe,
Chester. They didn’t! They waited until I tried—and failed. They stole
my luggage coming back. They kidnapped my French maid. They did
everything. They may do more!” Saidee Isaacs reached swiftly and
snatched up the revolver.

“Take this, Chester! You may need it!”

“Go easy,” said Fay as he felt the revolver slipping into his pocket.
“Go easy, Saidee. You better keep it here. Dutch Gus was trying to prowl
the house when I got through the hedge. It was him on the electric
door-mat. I didn’t—”