“Say, mister,” Fay heard. “Say, will you show me the way to my hotel?
It’s the Huntington, I guess. You guys in this burg call it different.
You call it the ’Untin’don, or something like that. D’ye know where it
is, Chappie?”

“Surest thing you know, old pal,” said Fay, shifting the coat and
linking his arm under the soldier’s. “Come along with me—I’m going right
that way!”

It was at the square, where the red mass of the Huntington Temperance
Hotel juts out into the Strand, that the soldier disengaged Fay’s arm
and stared at him.

“Say,” he said, “are you a bloody Britisher?”

“Surest thing you know.”

“You don’t look like one.”

“Looks are skin deep, my friend.”

The soldier accepted a proffered cigarette from Fay’s gold case, glanced
at the tip, then declared as he reached for a match:

“They may be skin deep, Chappie, but you remind me of the States—New
York! If you’re a Yank, why didn’t you get in the fight?”

Fay had no ready answer for the thrust which most certainly went home.
He covered his confusion by accepting the half-burnt match, then he
laughed lightly.

“Why didn’t I go to the fight?” he temporized. “I’ve got a good reason—a
very good one. I was never invited.”

“Ah, go on!”

“Besides,” said Fay, “I guess the fight is over.”

The soldier glanced at the black band on his arm. “You’re an American?”
he insisted.

“Well, suppose I am?”

“And you came over here without a uniform?”

“I’ve worn a uniform for five years,” said Fay truthfully.

“What service?”

“The King’s own!”

“Gawan!”

“Surest thing you know. And now, my friend,” he added, stepping back,
“I’m going to leave you at the Huntington—not ’Untin’don! Some day, when
you go back to the States and to Broadway, just drop into the Café
Ponsardine and tell the chap at the desk, in front, that you saw Chester
Fay. Tell him—you’ll know him by a bald spot, and a scar on his
chin—that I’m working for Scotland Yard. He may drop over when you tell
him that. He may buy you a drink!”

“Ah, say!”

Fay was gone with a finishing laugh. He turned into the Strand and
hurried eastward. He knew of a place where often he had spent the night
when the Yard was close on his heels in days gone by. This lodging for a
night was run by an ex-fence who bought only diamonds out of their
settings or large Bank of England notes. Clanson was his name.

Fay turned a corner, leaned against the wall and lighted a cigarette in
the shadow of a doorway, within which was a deep, blue light. A
constable stood across the street in an attitude of resignation. There
was no other name for it.

The cracksman shifted his coat from his right arm to his left, dropped
the cigarette to his feet and stepped briskly toward the same corner he
had rounded. It was an old trick of a man who feared a shadow. He saw
none. A “growler” or four wheeler, drawn by a decrepit nag, rattled over
the asphalt, going toward the West End.

Assured, Fay turned and hurried up the side street until he reached a
small temperance hotel, at the side of which was a shop bearing the
ancient and honorable title of: “M. Clanson, Dealer in Antiques and
Foreign Monies.”

Fay found a handle which he pulled twice, then twice more after a
five-second wait. He repeated the signal, known of old. A light showed
at the back of the shop. It came toward the front. Clanson, in night cap
and with a candle held over his head, pressed his bloated face to the
dusty pane of the door. His nose grew white on the tip, as he stared at
Fay. He drew back with a smirk and started removing two chains and
rattling at least one key. The door opened on a third chain.