The swaying light of the candle inside the vault went out with a sudden
puff from Dutch Gus’s lungs. A rattle of gravel sounded on the window
panes at the front of the room. This rattle was repeated. A pane
cracked.

There appeared at the doorway of the strong-box a face aglow with
suspicion. Eyes darted toward the windows. An oath struck through the
room.

Fay raised his automatic and stared forward. He had sensed with the
divination of the professional what had happened. The skulker in the
street was the lookout for the mob inside the embassy. He had rounded
the square and thrown gravel against the windows as a prearranged signal
of danger.

His voice rose on the outside. It was a tipsy call in South German:

“Du bist verrücht, mein Kind.”

There was a warning in the simple words. Fay crouched beside a desk and
watched Dutch Gus. The German bungler was of two minds. He turned toward
his confederates. One of these grasped him by the arm and pointed toward
the door.

“Schnell!” he exclaimed. “Ja, das ist Hugo!”

“Yes,” said Fay, tersely. “Yes, the jig is up!”

Dutch Gus snarled as he hurtled toward the desk. Fay dodged him nimbly
and glided to a deeper shadow of the room. More gravel struck the
windows. It was insistent!

The action which followed was blurred. Fay held his position and watched
the three Germans stagger toward the front door. They dropped tools on
the way. Dutch Gus turned as the knob was turned. He stared backward
like a baffled boar that scented a trap.

Fay heard shouts outside. There followed a clatter of heavy heels on the
steps leading to the street. A jimmy came hurtling through the air and
dug a hole in the plaster of the wall. It was Dutch Gus’s parting shot.
His burly form squeezed through the opening and was gone with a parting
snarl which sounded like “Suchen sie Schutz!”

Acting swiftly now, Fay leaped over the floor of the room, slammed the
front door, bolted and locked it, then glided toward the shattered outer
doors of the safe.

He had scant time to work in. Already shouts and calls echoed the
streets. Wooden sabots clacked over the cobbles. A whistle shrilled the
night. An alarm bell started to ring.

“Curse you, you Dutch bungler!” said Fay, springing to the pile of books
and feeling over the plate of the keister. His rubber-covered fingers
found the combination-dial. This had not been injured. He whirled it
rapidly four times to the right as he thrust his free hand under his
vest and drew forth the stethoscope.

Working with every sense alert, he clapped the diaphragm of the delicate
instrument over the dial’s spindle and thrust the ear-pieces into his
ears. He listened as he spun the dial three times to the left and then
moved it notch by notch.

A click, as faint as a dropping feather, sounded. He reversed the
direction of rotation and listened for a second click. It came as a
rattle outside the door of the room denoted that guards were attempting
to enter. A stout cry rolled through the embassy.

Fay did not hear this sound. His every effort was strained on opening
the door to the keister where the cipher-key was located.

He turned the dial to the left and caught the third click. He needed now
but one more to open the keister.

Slowly his fingers moved, with his brain centered on catching the faint
sound. It seemed a century of time. He was on the point of giving up and
repeating the entire operation when the last tumbler fell.

Dropping the stethoscope where it dangled from his ears, he grasped the
handle of the door and pulled it down. It caught and then went into its
socket.

Fay opened the door and reached for a match. The floor shook with the
tramp of feet. The air was vibrant with menace. Fingers seemed to reach
for him through the gloom. Lights flashed beyond the windows.

He scratched the match on the wall of the keister and shaded it with his
palm. Inside was a dusty row of yellow envelopes, each bound with soiled
ribbons. Above these, on a shelf, stood the many seals of the embassy.
Over these and alone was a packet bound with string.