“And some of them will be German agents.”

Fay admitted this by a slow nod. He backed against the rail, hooked his
heel into a netting and eyed the door for all the world like a man who
was there to stay.

She realized what was passing in his mind. The time was slipping by.
Already the open water had been reached. The ship would soon be in the
North sea. A slight rocking foretold the seas to come.

Glancing toward the bow, she puckered her brow. Her thoughts were on the
cipher-key. It was in the hands of Dutch Gus. He well knew its value. He
had followed her from Holland to London and from London back to Holland
in the quest. There seemed no way to get him out of the cabin before the
ship put into port.

Fay dropped his heel to the deck. They were out of ear-shot of the
steward and the deck-hand who were standing guard over the remarkable
passenger.

“I’ve a plan,” she said with the brevity of a man.

“What—is it?”

“Set the ship on fire and get him when he comes out.”

Fay glanced at her in admiration. “Good!” he said. “Good idea, but—”

“But what?”

He turned and studied the sea. A fog draped the lowlands. Beyond, rocks
and hills rose. A ridge followed the coast line. The wind was from the
north and west. Sailing craft dotted the ocean.

“If we burn this boat,” he said to her. “If we do—and I can do it—we
might burn him with the cipher-key. He couldn’t get out of the cabin
soon enough. This ship’s loaded with inflammable crates.”

“But we must do something.”

He lifted his chin and stared at the funnel and the pilot-house. He
turned and counted the small-boats. His eyes darted swiftly over the
superstructure. They fastened finally upon a companion with a handrail.
It led downward to the engine-room. A grimy Dutch coal-passer was
leaning over the rail, smoking a pipe. His shirt was open to the waist.
His belt was a black-tarred rope’s end.

“I’ve got it!” said Fay, suddenly. “See where that hatch leads? Look,
Saidee! It leads to the stoke-hold and the engine-room.”

“To the bottom of the ship?”

“Yes.”

“Well?”

“I’m going around the deck and count the boats. I don’t think there are
but four. There’s not more than six or seven passengers. The crew can’t
number over fifteen—counting the engineers and the stokers. Twenty or
twenty-two souls—all told. We’ll get Dutch Gus out into the open where
we can handle him. Come on!”

“Are you going to leave him alone?”

“Yes! He won’t trust that cipher-key to anybody. It’s sealed. He won’t
open it. He’s certainly got it with him. It’ll be with him when the
crash happens. Go to your cabin. I want you to stay there till I come
for you.”

She followed him around the stern. He opened her cabin door, after a
shrewd glance at the two Germans by the life-boat, and went in.

“Stay here,” he said. “We’re sure to be watched, together. I’ll be back
in ten minutes. I’m going below, and if this ship is what I think it
is—we’ll get the cipher-key. You look out every minute and watch the
Germans. Follow them if they go to Dutch Gus’s cabin.”

He darted away from the girl and around the stern of the ship. Already a
heavy swell was lifting the bow. There was a promise of more seas to
come. The fog had lightened in patches. Vistas showed, framed by
dragging vapor like the ropes of huge Zeppelins. A glint of sun slanted
over the coast of Holland. The ship was skirting the coast line. It was
in danger of floating mines which had broken loose before peace had been
declared.

He paused in his steps, after descending the ladder and advancing part
of the distance to the engine-room companion. The Dutch stoker, with his
pipe, was still taking the air.

“Can I go down?” Fay asked as he pointed toward the deck. “I’d like to
see the engines.”