“Wait!”

She grasped the rail and turned. “What is it?” she asked. “I must hurry
back. It was my dummy—that’s why I came.”

Fay reached in his pocket and whipped out a cigarette. He lighted it
with cool fingers holding the match. He jerked his head toward the
pilot-house and the fog-wreathed bow.

“The captain has a wireless message of some kind. He tried to find me in
my cabin. The steward knocked. They’re looking over the ship for me now.
Something has gone wrong. They wouldn’t do that unless there was a
rumble.”

“Rumble?”

“Yes! I’m discovered! The Yard has wirelessed the ship. We were trailed
aboard—you and I.”

“It can’t be, Chester.”

“It’s true! There’s no other reason for the skipper’s looking for me.
He’ll probably lock me up if he finds me. I’m going to hide in this
boat. You find out what you can about the smoked-glasses. I’ll stay here
till you come back.”

She twisted the deck of cards in her fingers and narrowed her eyes. Her
lips hardened slightly. Anxiety showed in the corners of her mouth.

“Are you sure?” she asked.

“Certain! Get back to the game. Don’t excite any suspicion. Find out
what you can and keep me posted. We’re pals! I’m not going to stand for
a pinch—if I can help it. You can give out later that I jumped
overboard. I’ll leave some clothes on the deck. MacKeenon is not going
to get me back to London. My one chance is to hide until you get the
information concerning the glasses from Harry Raymond. Then we can
breathe easier.”

“Get into the boat,” she whispered. “Stay there till I come. I did see
the captain and a steward looking around the Ladies’ Saloon.”

“You better not go back then.”

“Yes, I must; perhaps I’ll discover the secret of glasses,” said Saidee
Isaacs.

Fay waited until she had vanished in the mist. He reached upward for a
second time, grasped a block and sprang to the rail. He cut two strands
of rope-yarn, unreaved it, and climbed within the outswung boat. He drew
close the flap of canvas. There were a water-keg and a box of ship’s
biscuits, crammed among a full set of oars and paddles. He moved about
and found a reclining place. He pillowed his head on a cross-seat which
was as hard as the shelf he slept on in Dartmoor.

Time passed—perhaps thirty minutes. He had no mark of the hour. He
puzzled his brain for some way out of the situation. There seemed none.
The captain was most certainly searching for him. The stewards and
deck-stewards had been notified. The wireless operator was undoubtedly
in touch with the shore stations as well as with Great Britain.

The ship would touch at Stavanger for a brief period. It would be
daylight or nearly so, unless the fog thickened. Fay saw scant chance of
getting ashore. He had the silver greyhound, but this insignia might
prove an identification mark instead of a passport.

The monotonous blare of the fog-horn, forward, and the occasional blast
from the deep-throated siren held his nerves at the breaking strain. He
was cramped, cold and bitter. Footsteps along the deck served to
irritate him. He wanted to smoke and feared the consequences.

There came a tap of a thrown object upon the canvas boat-cover. He
waited and heard a mellow voice reciting:

“Thy towers, they say, gleam fair—
Bombay across the deep, blue sea.”

He lifted the canvas flap and peered out. Saidee Isaacs was leaning over
the rail. She glanced upward and bobbed the feathers of her hat.

Fay climbed out of the boat and sprang down to her side.

“Well?” he asked incisively.

“He’s in his cabin, now. The game broke up when the Russian turned over
his last kopeck. He had some pearls, but your friend Harry didn’t want
them. I never saw such a game of Bridge in my life!”

Fay stared at her lips. A fine smile of retrospection was upon them. The
droop to her eyes was inscrutable. She flushed suddenly and turned from
the rail.