The view returned. The figure was now close by the funnel. Hands were
raised impotently toward the heavens. The German in Dutch Gus had caved.
He cried, and the sea mocked him.

Fay loosened a pair of oars, sat down, and swung the bow of the small
boat toward the ship. He sensed his position and bent his back. The ship
went down in a geyser of white foam. The upper deck-cabins and
ventilators were sheered from their holding-bolts. The sea churned with
white wreckage.

Out of this wreckage there appeared a bobbing head. Fay swung the boat
and rowed in the direction of this head. He waited, inboarded his oars
and rose with the tiny revolver clutched tightly in his hand. Saidee
Isaacs leaned over the bow. She pointed toward Dutch Gus.

The German crook was going down for the second time when Fay leaped
forward and reached out his right hand.

He caught a firm grip upon the swimmer’s neckband. He jerked backward
and lifted Dutch Gus out of the sucking sea. The girl stumbled to the
stern of the boat as the bow went under and water cascaded over the
seats. She stood erect and watched Fay.

Taking no chances, he laid the form over a gunwale and searched the
pockets. He found a pasty mass of Bank of England notes and some gold. A
knife, cartridges, papers and a notebook followed.

He deposited these on a seat and rose. He glanced over the sea. There
was no sign of the other boats of the ship. Wreckage and floating crates
lifted and fell with the waves. Fog swirled and wreathed about the spot
where the freighter had gone down.

Stooping swiftly, Fay unbuttoned the German’s clothes and removed a
money-belt. There was a bulge near the buckle of this. The buckle was
hard to open. Fay turned, steadied himself, and snatched up the knife.
He opened a blade with his strong teeth. He slit the chamois of the belt
and drew out the cipher-key. It was sealed. It had not been tampered
with. The paper with which it was bound was wet.

“We win!” he exclaimed as he turned toward the girl in the stern of the
boat. “He’s checkmated!”

Her eyes flashed. She clutched the tossing gunwale with her fingers. She
poised as he held up the package.

“Give it to me, Chester,” she said. “I’ll take care of it.”

He extended his arm and passed the package to her. “It may be worth the
price,” he said. “Guard it carefully.”

He wheeled and stepped toward Dutch Gus. The German lay half in and half
out of the water. His legs dragged through the waves. Fay rolled back
the eye-lids and studied the pupils. He felt the pulse.

Turning then and searching the bottom of the boat, he saw a dry place
where he could lay him. He lifted the body and staggered aft with it. He
dropped it between the center and the stern-seat.

“Come forward,” he said to the girl. “He isn’t armed! We’ll wait till he
recovers his senses and then we’ll make him row us ashore. It can’t be
more than six or seven miles.”

Dutch Gus stirred at this statement. He threw up an arm and rolled over
on his face. His hand crept toward his waist with sly, creeping jerks.

Fay smiled as the girl came to his side and sat down on the forward
seat. “Watch,” he whispered. “He’s shamming! Watch, when he misses the
package.”

A savage roar greeted the discovery of the loss. Dutch Gus doubled,
turned, and lifted himself by grasping the starboard gunwale of the
boat. He glared forward. His eyes were blood-shot and baleful. He saw
the tiny revolver come up inch by inch until its muzzle pointed straight
for his forehead.

“Row!” said Fay. “Take up those oars and go to work. I plucked you
clean! You lost the gun you stole from me when the ship sunk. This one
is a six-gun with steel bullets and smokeless-powder. It’s little, but
it’ll do the work!”

The crook’s eyes wavered. They searched the tossing sea, which was
fog-shrouded. They returned to the sight of the little gun held so
steadily. They dropped to the oars.

“That’s right,” said Fay. “Sit backwards and fall to. It’s only seven
miles, Dutch. Why did you pick such an awful coast?”

The German had no answer for this question. He staggered to his feet and
stared about with savage eyes. Each time he turned toward the stern of
the boat, he saw the little silver-plated revolver.