Fay arched his brows at this statement.

“How about the chest?” he asked.

“Perfect, sir. All one has to do is to press it to the left breast and
place on the ear-pieces. The instrument registers every valve motion and
defect.”

“Your price?”

“Eight pound, ten—the same price we charged the British Royal Flying
Corps. They were used extensively in the examination of the flying men.”

Fay had another purpose for the stethoscope. It worked equally as well
upon the door of a strong-box just over the combination dial. This is
the nearest spot to the padded slots into which certain tumblers drop
with a tap which would sound like a bolt falling by use of a sensitive
micro-phone diaphragm.

“I’ll take it!” he snapped. “That completes my purchases. Now, let me
see the bag.”

The bag proved all that the salesman claimed for it. Fay fondled each
instrument, laid them in position, and turned the key in a little
nickle-plated lock.

He paid his score and was out in the street, pressing his way like a
doctor on a hurried call. He caught his reflection in a window. It was
of a British surgeon, in cap and long tweed coat, carrying the little
insignia of the office. He expected momentarily to be grasped by the arm
and led to a street accident.

The matter of the instruments had been carefully thought out. There
remained a second purchase equally as important. Fay was doubtful of the
propriety of purchasing a heavy-caliber revolver in the open shops.

He turned into Cheapside and sauntered along. An ancient armorer’s sign
caught his darting glance. He crossed the pavement and stared into the
window. A half-circle of British regulation revolvers lay in the center
of other hardware. Also, there was a blue-steel American automatic with
a business-like muzzle.

Fay smiled at this as if greeting an old friend. Mike the Bike and Big
Scar, of western memory, always carried a .44 automatic. They called
them “maggy-guns” or “smoke wagons.”

He went inside the shop and explained to the proprietor that he was en
route to Mesopotamia. “I’ll take that American revolver,” he said.
“That, and one hundred cartridges. Never can tell what the Turks are apt
to do.”

Emerging from the armorer’s, with the automatic clinking against the
tools in the bag, he glanced at the time. It was three o’clock. Fog was
drifting across the dome of St. Paul’s. He had five hours before meeting
MacKeenon!

Swirled now with the first grip of the game, he decided to visit one or
two of his old haunts. No one would be likely to know him in the guise
of a British surgeon.

He chose to first drop in at the Monica, and from there make his way to
“Jimmy’s” or the St. James Hotel, which at one time was a meeting place
for international celebrities and flash denizens of the underworld.

The long bar at the Monica was strangely free from patrons. Fay ordered
Rhine wine and seltzer, which was equivalent to a soft drink.

The bar-maid turned away as he spun a shilling over the bar. Fay, on the
alert, and with the doctor’s bag between his feet, caught a glance
exchanged between the girl and a lone figure at the end of the bar.

He sipped the drink and searched his brain for an answer to the signal
which he had detected. It came to him with sudden flash. The man was
from the Yard. The girl had recognized an old acquaintance in the
plaid-capped visitor.

Fay acted with the quick wit of the professional. He glided along the
bar and held out his hand. The smile he bestowed upon the inspector
broke down a staid Scotch reserve.

“Well, have you found him yet?” he asked cautiously.

The man from Scotland Yard winced.

“I mean Dutch Gus,” whispered Fay.

“No!” The answer was solemn and from the heart.

“And it’s been five years?”