“The screw?”

“Yes! The damn blear-eyed, sneaking cockney who counted me so often I
thought he’d wear my buttons off. Five counts a day in Dartmoor,
Saidee.”

“Do you think it pays?”

“You’re no one to ask me that!” Fay shot the statement through clean,
white teeth, then studied its effect on the girl at his side.

She tapped the point of her slipper upon the rug, rose, glanced toward
the half-door to the butler’s pantry, and said:

“I’ve squared it, Chester. Come, and I’ll make some tea and a little
lunch. I want to show you how quickly one can climb up when they quit
fighting, fighting the police of the world.”

Fay walked by the girl’s side, then fell one step behind her as she led
the way through a curtain and down a passage to a kitchen which was
illuminated by a single wall cluster.

He stood erect on the well-scoured tiling and glanced about with
amazement. There was everything in the culinary art within the four
white walls. A wine box showed with its drip pan. A row of many shaped
glasses, arranged in half-dozens, stretched along two shelves. A
cocktail-shaker hung on a hook. A recess above the glasses was filled
with dark bottles whose seals spoke of price and age.

Bins, drawers, an electric-stove, half-barrels, china with a tiny gold
crest, knives and silverware, were at the further end of the kitchen. A
door was set in the wall, through which the servants passed. Fay eyed
this door as he asked:

“Who paid for all this?”

“Jealous?” asked the girl, as she placed a pot on the stove and snapped
on a switch.

“Who paid for it?” he repeated hotly.

Saidee Isaacs wheeled and came toward him. Her eyes were no longer the
inscrutable pools of dark brown. They flashed and drove him back toward
the wall.

“Who paid for it? I did!” she exclaimed. “How do you think I got it? By
wiles or guiles or knavery? By lowering myself to a moll-buzzer or a
store hister? No, and you know it! I earned it, Chester Fay!”

“In five years?”

“Yes—in less! In four years! I want you to take back what you said.”

“I didn’t say anything, Saidee. I didn’t—”

“Well, you were going to!”

Fay smiled and only increased her anger. “You thought something,” she
said staunchly. “You have no right to ask me who paid for this house or
the things in it.”

“I take it back,” said Fay, glancing toward the electric-stove. “The
water’s boiling, Saidee,” he added. “Let’s start all over again. I’m
beginning to like this little kitchen.”

Saidee Isaacs shaded her eyes with her lashes and switched off the
current. A Japanese pot came out of a closet. Two cups followed it. Tea
was made as Fay watched her moving swiftly over a sideboard upon which
she sliced tongue, bread and a heaping mound of old English fruit cake.

“Bring up a chair!” she commanded. “Bring two!”

He moved the chairs over the tiling and offered her one. She drew it to
her side, turned and stared at his hair. “I noticed that first,” she
said, softening her voice slightly. “It was brown when you went in.”

“It was! It would have been white instead of gray if you hadn’t seen Sir
Richard. Ten years of that hell! Look at my nails.”

“I noticed them,” she said, meeting his eyes. “Do you think there is
anything in crime?”

“Not lately,” Fay blurted as he seated himself. “Pass the tea, please.”

She poured the cup full and poised the Japanese pot. “You’re going to
square it now?” she asked.

“I may!”

“I want you to promise. I want you to go to Holland and open that
strong-box. I don’t want you to fail me. Remember it’s me! Sir Richard
and the rest don’t count. You’re doing it for me, because I
recommended—”