“How?” asked Fay.

“He named a dye—a fast blue—which the German chemist said was one of the
thirty-six which were fully worked out in the formulae. The chemist took
the boxes, went into a room, and came out with the formula of the
fast-blue, down to the last reaction. It couldn’t be done by any trick
of memory!”

“That sounds plausible,” Fay said. “Then it is no hoax?”

“It’s straight goods, Fay! The five thousand sheets in these three boxes
contain the chemical formulae for the thirty-six dyes. The devil of it
is, we lost the key, in—the country north and east of here. You’re going
to get that key for us!”

“Just a moment. Isn’t it possible that the whole thing is a blind?”

“Be clear!”

“I mean that the lines of letters, thirty-two or three on each page, are
there for a gull?”

“Go on!”

“They might be a gull for fools to go mad about. The real cipher may be
within the lines. That also is a common practice at Dartmoor. Men have
received letters from the outside which are written with lemon juice
between the lines. All they did was to heat the paper and the message
came out in brown ink.”

Sir Richard smiled broadly. “That has been thought of,” he said,
glancing at MacKeenon. “To be frank, as I said, everything has been
tried. We’ve even split some of the paper. We’ve tried every reaction
known to science. We’ve bathed the sheets in oxalic acid and iodine.
There was only one clue in this direction.”

Fay lifted his hand and fingered the pearl-pin in his cravat.

“That one clue,” continued Sir Richard, “was the report of an American
chemist that he detected a salt in the composition of the paper. It was
so faint, however, that nothing came of it. We’re squarely up against
the last card—that big gopher in the embassy!”

Fay frowned slightly at the chief’s use of an American yegg’s pet name
for a strong-box. It showed Sir Richard’s versatility, and also showed
the cracksman what manner of man he was dealing with.

“Gopher has gone out,” said Fay in correction. “Only the low-brows of
the Middle Western States use it. You should say: ‘can or jug or
keister.’”

“We’ll compromise on ‘crib,’ a good old word used in the time of Jack
Cade and other mid-Victorian gentlemen!”

“All right, Chief! You want me to take it—without trace. In it I’m to
find the key to the cipher—if there is a key. What can you say
concerning the key? Is it a book, paper or design of some kind?”

“Now we’re getting close!” Sir Richard exclaimed. “It is a small packet
in the back of the embassy’s crib. It was seen only last week by a
trusted agent who could go no further. This agent informs me that the
neutral nation, north and east of here, is in a quandary concerning it.
Germany has requested that the packet be returned over her border.”

“Any marks of identification?”

“Yes! You will always know it by a name written in ink across one
corner, under a blue string. The name is Otto Mononsonburg—the man who
was stabbed in the back, near the Schwartz Canal.”

“Ah,” said Fay, “the matter seems easy. I get my freedom?”

“If you get the packet and turn it over to me.”

“I’ll get it! Now a number of other things, Sir Richard—” Fay turned and
stared at the lurking figure of the Scotch inspector. MacKeenon lifted
his hand and stroked his jaw with a sly motion. His eyes swung from
Fay’s to Sir Richard’s. They held the glint of the manhunter and the
hound. A tawny fire was in them.

For the second time that evening there came an air of tenseness into the
room. Fay felt it as he watched the Scotch inspector. Try, as he should,
he could never get over the feeling that the detective was his born
enemy.

MacKeenon was so like a waiting collie. The leathern pouches of the
Scot—the curl to his lips—the fang-like teeth, all made this thing seem
real.

With Sir Richard Colstrom there was this difference. The chief had
traveled far. He had taken the pains to acquire some of the argot of the
underworld. He was rated square—after he caught his quarry. Fay could
never believe that a manhunter played a fair game in running down
criminals. There was too much oral evidence to the contrary. There had
been a number of stool-pigeons in his life. To him, the despicable thing
about the game was the traitors.