She tapped the rug, with a cold smile bringing down the corners of her
mouth. She turned then and stared at him. His eyes stared back at her.
Neither moved. Fay tried to read what was transpiring in her mind. He
caught the scent of heliotrope from her negligee. It softened him with
old memory. He leaned closer, hardly daring to breathe.

“Chester,” she said finally, “you’re the biggest fool I ever knew.
You’re always making mistakes. That finger-print! That slip in Paris,
ten years ago. And now, you stepping on a rug and blundering about. Why
didn’t you come straight to me—not like a thief in the night?”

“I came the way I was sent!”

She arched her brows. “The Yard don’t send their agents that way,” she
said.

“So!” said Fay, “you know! You got me out so I’d be a stool-pigeon for
Sir Richard. That’s it—is it?”

“A stool, Chester? Think what you’re saying. Think of the old, old days
when we were going dead wrong. Why, this is a different thing!”

“What do you mean, Saidee?”

She smiled inscrutably, which was her ancient charm to him. Her eyes
glowed as she reached out an overly jeweled hand. “All bets in the crook
game are off,” she said with American directness. “They’re off for a
time, Chester. I got you out of Dartmoor for bigger game.”

Fay had never fully understood Saidee Isaacs. The riddle-woman was
strong in her. She was two natures as wide apart as the poles. She could
hate stronger and longer than anybody he had ever known. Her love, which
had never been given to any man, would mean all in all.

“You,” he said bitterly, “were long in getting to this big game. It’s
been five years, plus one day, since you told me to have courage, in
that court room. That was just after the beak pronounced the limit.”

“Kindly refrain from slang, Chester.”

“Oh, you!” he snapped, with his eyes flashing. “You—you lady! Since
when? I suppose you’ve forgotten the Maiden Lane affair or the pint of
uncut stones we switched on the sucker who came up from the Cape. I—”

Saidee Isaacs had risen and stood facing him. “Another word,” she said,
“and it’s all off between us! I had you sprung, to use your old slang. I
used my influence with Sir Richard. I told him that you were the only
living man who could open that box in Holland, without leaving a trace.
He mentioned other box-men—Sheeney Mike and Foley the Goat and little
Eddie Richards. They’re all doing bits in England. You were my choice,
and he sent for you!”

“How about the Hatton Gardens affair influencing him?”

“It did, in a way,” admitted the girl as she narrowed her eyes. “But the
main thing was that he had sent—somebody who failed. That somebody came
back and recommended you. It’s a hard safe to crack. It’s well watched.
Besides, Sir Richard wanted it done without trace.”

Fay felt more at ease as he motioned toward the divan with his left
hand. “You seem to know a lot about this, Saidee. Were you the King’s
Courier? Do I get a little silver greyhound from you?”

She hesitated and then sat down. Her hands folded in her lap. The jewels
glittered and flashed the white fire from the electric globes. Her eyes
widened. An elusive smile lurked in their corners as she turned to him.

“Of course not!” she said archly. “Do you think I could open a big safe
like you can? You foolish boy!”

“I’ve phoned Sir Richard my house might be burglarized and report that
the thief stole a silver greyhound and some clothes. That’s only an
alibi for Scotland Yard in case of international complications. You know
they might happen.”

Fay moistened his lips and leaned back against the cushions. Saidee had
offered a naïve explanation which hardly rang true. She had not
explained how clothes and a King’s messenger happened to be in a rather
smart Richmond Hill villa.

“Oh, you’re too deep for me,” he said frankly. “I’ll take your word,
Saidee. I always have. Come across with the badge and the diagram of the
embassy. Sir Richard said I would get them here at Number 4.”

“What time is it?”

“Almost daybreak,” he said, glancing from the dial of his watch to the
windows. “I haven’t had a bit of sleep since the screw woke me up
this—yesterday morning, and told me to get my clothes on. Think how I
felt!”