She tiptoed over the bridge and watched him go back and remove the
center plank. This he pulled ashore. They walked up through dew-laden
grass and entered an open summer-house whose quaint carvings and low
benches, made from natural wood knots, showed the hand of a Holland
builder.

He sat down, drew his coat around his knees and thrust out his shoes.
“I’ll wager, Saidee, we’ve beat the coppers,” he said, fishing for a
cigarette and lighting it with a sputtering match. “Now you come clean
with what you know and we’ll go back to London together. I’ll see Sir
Richard, get an unconditional pardon, and we’ll go to the States. The
war is nine months over.”

“But another begins,” she said as she stood before him. “Don’t you know
the most terrible struggles are the silent ones—the commercial ones that
go on in the dark?”

“Like the underworld against the police.”

“Please don’t mention the underworld. I’ve been out of it for five
years—so have you. We’ve squared it. You know my people. I know yours.
It’s time we’re living up to our blue china. Thievery is worse than
cheating at cards. You should use your talents within the law. Let’s
play the game according to the rules.”

He watched her and puffed at his cigarette. She walked back and forth
over the planks of the summer-house. The soles of her high-heeled
gun-metal shoes were wet. Her skirt hung dejectedly. The ruching about
her neck had lost its starch. The crowning touch of the drooping
feathers was pathetic.

“I’ve dragged you through hell,” he said, indicating that she should sit
down. “I could make a fire, but someone might smell it.”

She went to a rail and stared up the canal. A lighter gray indicated
that the sun was breaking through the clouds to the eastward. The rattle
of blocks and the creak of a sail going up floated down to them. She
turned away and sat down with her hands folded in her lap. She twisted
her finger-rings.

“What happened to you when you joined Scotland Yard?” he asked
point-blankly. “Did they pinch you for something?”

“No, they did not! They wanted something done and I was about the only
one who could do it. The war gave me an opportunity to show them what
real good I could do. They paid me for it—paid well. England never
forgets!”

Fay thought of Dartmoor. “You’re right!” he exclaimed, tossing the
cigarette butt away. “England never does. So they adopted you and you
squared it and you acted as their agent in Zurich and other places!”

“Their agents never admit they are their agents.”

“Well put!” said Fay. “I’ve guessed right, though?”

“Yes.”

“And you had something to do with getting that cipher out of
Switzerland?”

“I had a lot to do with getting it to England.”

“And when you got it to Sir Richard—the key was missing?”

She laid her hand over his left overcoat pocket. “You’ve finished what I
couldn’t,” she said.

Fay leaned back. He listened, then drew out his cigarette-case and
selected a cigarette. She watched him intently.

“It’s after six o’clock,” he said as he struck a match. “See, it’s
cracking dawn everywhere. The fog will go and leave us sitting in the
open. Suppose we plant the bags, walk ashore, and try the north bank of
the Schwartz Canal for a ship out of Holland. We don’t care where it
goes, if it gets us to England.”

“It would be better for me to look for MacKeenon and give him the
package. He will give us a receipt which you can show to Sir Richard.
That receipt will free you from the five years hanging over your head,
Chester.”

“I don’t play the game that way!” he said, rising and staring down at
her. “I’ll be my own messenger. I was sent after a thing, and I got it.
That hound, MacKeenon, might claim the credit. He might say I fell down
on the job. He’s looking for a reputation.”

She realized that he was not to be moved from his purpose. Her eyes
blazed defiance as she sprang up.