“Come on,” he said wearily. “Let’s go to your cabin. Climb over these
bales. Look out for that tackle. Now through these crates.”

He seized her arm and guided her through the last of the deck stores.
They mounted a short ladder and hurried forward. The two cabins assigned
to them by the purser were upon the opposite side of the ship from the
one occupied by Dutch Gus.

She hastily got out a key, twisted it in her trembling fingers and
opened her door. She entered and switched on the light. He followed her
after a glance up the deck. He drew her door closed.

“Now, explain everything,” she whispered as she leaned forward and
studied his blood-stained face. “Just how did you come to lose it?”

Fay drew off his cap and tossed it to the bunk. She helped him with his
overcoat. She stood near the door as he rolled up his sleeves, glanced
swiftly at the blood stains, then started pouring water from a
racked-pitcher.

“Wait till I clean up,” he replied, lathing his hands. “Dutch Gus took
everything. They knocked me out and went through my pockets. The
package—my money—the revolver—everything is gone. It reminded me of
Chicago—only worse!”

She caught the laugh in his voice. It reassured her. He was far from
being beaten.

“Have you any money?” he asked, turning his hands toward the light and
staring at them.

“Yes! Plenty! Thank goodness, mine wasn’t in my bag. But almost
everything else was!”

“You don’t happen to have a gun?” He dipped his face into fresh water,
mopped his hair, then reached for a towel.

“I’ve a little one. It’s loaded.”

“Better give it to me. I’m going to get Dutch Gus before this ship
reaches land. He can’t get away with what he has done. Part of his gang
is aboard. I don’t care. He’s lived entirely too long, for the good of
the world, Saidee.”

She caught the new, determined note in his voice. It steadied her. She
stooped, turned up the bottom of her skirt and drew out from a secret
pocket a tiny silver-plated revolver of superior make.

Glancing at it, she dropped her skirt and thrust it into his reaching
hand.

He twirled the barrel, pocketed the revolver and put on his coat,
overcoat and cap.

“I was pretty rough,” he said apologetically. “You’ll have to forgive
that part. I’m going after Dutch Gus, Saidee.”

“Be careful. Can’t you wait till the ship lands?”

“No! It’ll put into Denmark. Germany has agents there who will come
aboard and take Dutch Gus with them. It’s now or never.”

Fay stepped to the door and moved it partly open. He stared out. Turning
his head, he said:

“The fog is lifting—I see dykes and the open sea. I’ll go around on the
other side and wait by his door. I won’t let him out. You try this side
and see if you can find any of his pals. There were two or three of
them. Perhaps they didn’t all come aboard.”

“Is there any way we could wireless MacKeenon?”

“Too late for that. The ship will put into Denmark early in the
afternoon.”

She watched him disappear through the door and glide toward the stern.
Arranging her hat in the mirror and frowning at her disheveled
appearance, she hurried to the deck and started forward.

Two skulkers by an outswung life-boat turned their faces away and
pretended to watch the shore. She saw that they were Germans and that
their shoes were caked with marsh-mud. She turned at the pilot-house and
glanced back. They were eyeing her sharply.

Fay stood by the rail directly in front of Dutch Gus’s cabin. He raised
his cap as she hurried in his direction. A steward and a deck hand had
nailed a barricade before the shattered door. No sound came from inside
the cabin.

“All right,” said Fay, without moving his lips. “He is trapped. They
think he’s crazy. He can’t get out, but we can’t get in. The captain
says he’ll call the port officers when we reach Denmark.”