The mystery of the affair gripped him in a passive vise. Dutch Gus was
the last man he had expected to see in that part of London. MacKeenon or
even Sir Richard might have visited the villa. A King’s courier lived in
the house, from all information. Then, asked Fay to himself, what was
the connection between Dutch Gus, the lookout, Sir Richard and the owner
of the villa? The entire matter was bound up in some manner with his
quest after the cipher’s key.

Fay had lived alone too long to believe that the presence of the crook
in that neighborhood could be laid to chance. He had often studied the
law of chances. They were infinite in the matter of meeting a friend or
enemy in a strange locality. The police never caught their quarry
through the chance meeting. It was always by a lead or a given
direction.

He turned the problem over in his quick way as he waited for some
development from the villa. He had no fear for himself. The night was
too dark for pursuit. There were innumerable side lanes and turns and
twists to that part of London. The constables were either asleep or
dozing in sheltered nooks.

Glancing upward, after emerging from the hedge, Fay studied the windows
on the side of the villa. No light shone from any of them. A light would
have been an indication that Dutch Gus and his lumbering get-away had
aroused the occupants.

The absence of any light was disconcerting, however. It would be equally
easy for someone inside to keep watch without revealing his presence. In
fancy he saw a lower curtain move. He dismissed this notion as time
passed. He waited, realizing that nothing would be gained by a retreat.
He was on the grounds of the villa he had been told to prowl. His coming
there had frightened Dutch Gus into a bungling get-a-way, which was some
satisfaction after all.

The warp and woof of the cipher affair would very likely prove a tangle
of many lives. Fay had not yet decided that he would go to that country
north and east of London and open the strong-box in the embassy. He had
not felt a call for patriotism in the enterprise. Rather, the matter
would have to shape itself. He distrusted the police and Scotland Yard
from bitter experience. And now, despite his efforts to the contrary,
fate or chance had brought him to the very house that Sir Richard had
wanted him to prowl.

He dropped to one knee, finally. Swiftly rolling the coat into a small
bundle he pressed it under a bush. Rising and listening with his senses
alert, he poised upon his toes, then started toward the nearest window,
which was the rear one of a huge bay.

Reaching this, after avoiding the gravel walk by stepping over it, he
crouched beneath the sill and pressed his ear to the frame-work of the
wall. His hearing was cell-matured and acute. The presence of anybody
above him, or any movement in the house, would be instantly detected. He
heard no one.

Working swiftly, he tried the window. It was locked, as he expected.
Reaching upward, after pulling on a pair of gloves which had been in the
pocket of the coat, he climbed by means of a vine and a ledge to the
sill, where he cupped his hands and studied the lock.

It was the ordinary kind he knew so well. There was a thin-bladed knife
on the end of his watch-chain. He drew this out and ran its blade
between the sashes. He struck the upper sash with the palm of his hand.
He pressed the lower sash and found the catch moving on stiff pivots.
One more try and the lock was in the off position. He waited then, ready
to spring to the ground or raise the window.

No sound came from the house. Fay bent his back, reached down with his
left fingers and slowly raised the window. The opening he made was not
over a foot in height.

Stooping and grasping the sill, he thrust his feet through, turned his
body and squirmed inside. He straightened swiftly and waited. Nothing
happened.

Soft curtains barred his way to the room. He reached out and pressed
these aside with cool fingers. The scent of a Japanese perfume greeted
his keen nostrils. Within this scent was another—the faint odor of
heliotrope.

Frowning slightly, he wondered at this. It brought memories with its
fragrant essence. Years before, somewhere, he had known that peculiar
sweetness. It lifted him, and brought to his mind what he had missed in
life’s great game.

Stepping forward, he moved amid the furniture of the room, caught his
directions by instinct, which is given to animals and prowlers, and
passed through a double door whose panels, down to the rugs, were tiny
crystals of glass.

He reached the opposite side of the villa from which he had entered. He
opened a catch and raised a window so that a hand-hold was between the
sash and sill. Satisfied that he had two avenues of escape, he went back
through the door of cut-glass and stood in the center of the first room.