The many faces of the crowd flowed before him like a stream. He
registered each one, but found none upon which he could fasten his
suspicion. The Yard and Sir Richard would be more than keen to know how
the great safe in Hatton Gardens had been opened. They had declared at
the time that it was by far the best piece of cracksman’s work ever done
in the city.

Fay had the pride of his profession. Secrecy was the one thing which had
been ground into him. He moved off from the windows and plunged into the
throng of drab clerks and shoppers. He twisted and turned and retraced
his steps. He dropped into the Tube and came out again. Satisfied, then,
that there was no shadow behind him, he turned into Ludgate Street and
sought for the shop.

It had been over five years since his last visit. The sales people
surely had forgotten him. He glanced up at the familiar sign and
entered. He made his way along aisles of polished cases and came to a
protection ledge behind which was an array of medical instruments laid
out for inspection.

The salesman who stepped out of the gloom with an encouraging smile was
the same who had been there five years and more before. Fay realized
this fact with quick intuition. He watched the man’s face for some sign
of recognition. There was none.

“My eldest brother,” he said with a winning smile, “has sent me to you.
He’s stationed in Mesopotamia. Rather far from here! He cawn’t come
himself, y’know. I’m a bit doubtful if you remember the Sir Roderick
Findlayson who went with the expedition. He practiced up St. John’s
Woods way.”

The salesman rested the tips of his fingers on the polished case and
puzzled his memory.

“Awkward of me, but I just can’t now. Is there anything I can do to help
you out?” he asked.

Fay was on rather thin ice, and he knew it. The instruments he wished
had queer names among the medical profession. It was possible the
salesman was not a surgeon.

“Yes!” he blurted. “You can help me out. My brother—Sir Roderick
Findlayson—wrote for me to send him certain things. Unfortunately I lost
the letter. But I remember about what he wanted.”

The salesman glanced at the case beneath the array of instruments. “We
have the largest supply in London,” he said. “Could you pick what you
want from this assortment?”

“Well, there was a satch—, a doctor’s bag, for one thing. Something nice
in black alligator. Say a three-pound bag. Would it be about this long?”

Fay spread his hands to show two feet in length.

“We have that size in genuine alligator for three and ten.”

“Nicely!” said Fay. “I take one. Now,” he added, “I may as well pick out
the instruments for my brother. You can get the bag later and put them
in it.”

The salesman opened the case and started lifting up trays filled with
highly polished instruments. Fay set aside a tempered artery-forceps
which would also answer to turn a key in a lock. It was known in the
underworld as an “insider.”

“My brother,” he said lightly, “will be pleased with this. Now what is
that big instrument?”

“That is used in obstetrics.”

“Just what he wanted. Put that with the forceps.” Fay shaded his face
and smiled. The obstetric instrument when taken apart would make a
high-grade jimmy.

He leaned down and indicated a tray. “Three of those,” he said, pointing
to bone saws which could be employed equally as well against wood or
iron.

The salesman polished these with a piece of cheesecloth and laid them on
top of the obstetric instrument.

“I think that’s all at this counter,” said Fay, eyeing the collection.
“The next will be rubber gloves and collodium. You see my brother has
many infectious cases.”

The salesman opened the back of a near-by case and brought out samples
of gloves. Fay inspected them as the clerk went for the collodium, which
was a sovereign cure for finger-prints.

Fay’s next purchase seemed an afterthought. Without it he would have
been an amateur. It was a very high-grade stethoscope, such as army
doctors and surgeons use to determine the right ventricle’s action or
the little flaws and flutters of the human heart. It had been made by
one of the greatest houses in London. The clerk insisted that it was
powerful enough to hear a fly walk ten feet away.