VII

BEN MYATT ADVISES


If, however, Starling Meyer had heard Jimmy’s version of that encounter
with Dud, he certainly gave no sign. When he and Dud met, which was
frequently now that daily baseball practice was going on in the
cage, he either looked over Dud’s head or deigned him a fleeting and
disdainful glance. But Dud didn’t feel at all badly because he received
no more attention. In fact, he was extremely glad every time he looked
at Star and pondered on that youth’s wealth of muscle and length of
arm, and he hoped from the bottom of his heart that Star would keep
right on treating him with distant disdain――the more distant the better!

Meanwhile Jimmy, being a firm believer in preparedness, had procured
two pairs of light-weight boxing gloves from different sources and Dud,
much against his inclination, was made to don a pair every day before
supper and do his best to master the rudiments of self-defense. I don’t
believe, just between you and me, that Jimmy knew a whole lot about
boxing, but at least he knew more than his friend did. Dud was the
veriest tyro and those first lessons, undertaken by Dud with no relish
and one might well say under compulsion, were strange affairs. With
the study table drawn back to the length of the green cord connecting
droplight and ceiling plug――the droplight met a natural fate during the
third lesson――an eight-foot “ring” was secured, and in this, with much
thudding of shoes and thumping of gloves, the two feinted and parried
and struck. The striking, though, was somewhat one-sided at first,
Jimmy being the striker and Dud the strikee, to coin a convenient word.
Anyone pausing outside the door of Number 19 might have heard, in spite
of the closed transom, a conversation calculated to arouse curiosity.

“Watch your head now!... Well, I warned you, didn’t I?... Keep your
right in front of you! Don’t drop your arm like that or.... Now
lead! Quick! Oh, put some pep in it, Dud!... More like this; see?...
Feint with your right and come up quick with your left straight for
my chin!... Get it? Try it again.... That’s better, only you’re too
slow. You give it away beforehand. Keep your eyes on mine and don’t
look where you’re going to hit.... Sorry, Dud! Was it too hard?... You
had your guard down, you see.... Quicker on your feet, old chap! Keep
moving! Don’t get set or I’ll.... I just wanted to show you what would
happen, Dud. Don’t get mad about it. The only way to learn.... Good
one! You got me that time! Right on the nose! Bully work!...”

After some half-dozen lessons Dud began to learn. And Jimmy, having
procured a paper-covered book in the village which was entitled “Boxing
Self-Taught,” studied it diligently and became more proficient. I
doubt that Jimmy, even when at his best, was what might be termed a
scientific boxer, and Dud never developed beyond the hammer-and-tongs
stage, but they got to fancying themselves quite a bit after a
fortnight or so and talked learnedly of “hooks” and “upper-cuts” and
“side-stepping” and other mysterious things. And by that time Dud
had become really interested and viewed Star Meyer with far less
awe. In fact, though I grieve to relate it, he even got to the point
where he speculated on what it would feel like to place his fist in
violent contact with Star’s supercilious nose! The conclusion that
he invariably arrived at was that the sensation would be distinctly
pleasurable! But much to Jimmy’s disappointment――and a little to Dud’s,
too, I fancy――Star offered the latter no possible excuse for doing such
a thing.

“He’s afraid of you,” grieved Jimmy. “Isn’t that the limit? A big,
husky chap like him――――”

“He,” corrected Dud.

“――――Being afraid of a fellow six inches smaller,” continued the other,
superbly disregarding the interruption. “Wouldn’t it make you weary?
What we’ve got to do, Dud, is force a quarrel on him. There’s no use
waiting for him to start anything!”

“Well, but why?” asked Dud doubtfully. “As long as he isn’t bothering
me――――”

“He _is_ bothering you! He――he’s a thorn in your flesh!”

“Oh!” said the other vaguely. “Is he?”

“Of course he is! He’s talking, too. Some of the things he’s said have
got back to me.”

“What?” asked Dud.

“Never mind what. You wouldn’t want to hear ’em, I guess.”

Dud laughed. “You’re making that up, Jimmy,” he charged. “You’re just
dying to get me into a scrap with him. I wouldn’t mind――much, although
I guess he’d lick me, but I don’t see any use in fighting him about
nothing. Of course, if he _did_ anything, or _said_ anything――――”