“That’s all right, too, but it’s going to make a lot bigger hit if you
get the decision,” responded Jimmy. “No, you’d better make up your mind
to lick him, Dud.”

“Make up my mind!” replied the other impatiently as they traveled
together down the corridor. “How’s making up my mind going to help? He
can lick me, and you know it. And I know it. What’s the good of talking
rot like that?”

“How do you know he can?” asked Jimmy eagerly. “I’ll bet you anything
Star’s got a yellow streak in him somewhere. And you’ve been learning
right along, haven’t you? Why, say, I call you a mighty clever boxer
right this minute, Dud! Yes, I do, honest! And――I say, what time is it?
Fine! We’ve just got time to put on the gloves for a few minutes. I was
reading in that book――――”

“I’m not going to put on the gloves,” answered Dud decidedly. “I’ll
fight him just as I am. All that scientific stuff isn’t much good,
anyway. It didn’t keep him from almost knocking me flat on the floor
this afternoon, did it?”

“But you weren’t looking for it! If you’d known――――”

“Besides, the thing is to get him to fight. He says he won’t. How can I
make him, Jimmy?”

“We-ell――――” Jimmy studied the question with his head on one side and
his mouth pursed. At last: “There are two or three ways, I guess. You
might challenge him publicly or you might just walk up and slap his
face the way he slapped yours or you might――――”

“That’s good enough,” interrupted Dud. “Come on!”

“Hold on! Where are you going?”

“To find him!”

“Well, but――but wait! Hold on! See here, Dud, you can’t walk into a
fellow’s room and biff him, you know!”

“Why can’t I?”

“Because it isn’t done, old chap. Violation of――er――hospitality and all
that, you know. What you want to do is to find him some time when other
fellows are around, see? Then he can’t possibly refuse. But you want to
make sure that a faculty isn’t looking! Better wait now until morning
and get him in School Hall; in the corridor, say. Yes, that’s the idea.
There’ll be a crowd around, and――――”

“I’d rather do it now,” said Dud. “Maybe――by tomorrow――I might
not――might not want to so much!”

“Oh, that’s all right. I’ll keep you up to it, son. Trust me. You
see, Dud, this is a wonderful opportunity and we want to make the
most of it. You wait until the morning and then find Star in the
corridor between recitations. There’s bound to be a crowd there.
Imagine the sensation when you step up to him and let him have
it right on the cheek! Maybe you’d ought to say something, too,
something――er――effective. Let’s see now. Suppose――――”

“Look here, Jimmy, this isn’t any silly pageant! I don’t care whether
anyone’s around or not. All you think about is making a public show of
it! You make me tired!”

“Nothing of the sort,” returned Jimmy indignantly. “All I say is that
if you’re going to do it you ought to do it right! What’s the good of
balling it all up when, by using a little――er――a little headwork, you
can make a great big hit? No, sir, you listen to me. I’m managing you
in this affair, Dud. Just you sit still and leave the whole business to
me.”

“Leave it to you――――” began Dud bitterly.

“Besides, I’ve got a better scheme, old chap! Let’s do it shipshape,
eh? After supper I’ll call on Star and take your challenge to him.
Then, if he says he won’t fight, we’ll go ahead with the public
insult scheme. But that will be giving him a chance to accept like a
gentleman. And, of course, whether he accepts or doesn’t, the thing is
just bound to leak out.” Jimmy grinned. “Those things always do.”

“I wish,” said Dud moodily, “I’d kept my mouth shut and not told you
anything about it. You’re bound to go and hire a brass band and make a
hullabaloo! I dare say”――sarcastically――“you’ll be selling tickets for
the fight!”

“By Jove, that isn’t a bad idea! I don’t mean to sell tickets, but we
might issue invitations or――or something. ‘You are cordially invited to
be present at an informal scrap between Dudley Baker and Starling Meyer
at five-thirty on Friday. R. S. V. P.’”