“I couldn’t have gone, Jimmy, with this plaguey toothache!”

“Why, no, I guess you couldn’t. But, thunderation, Dud, if it isn’t
a toothache it’s something else. You’ve always got some perfectly
wonderful excuse for beating it about the time the fun begins. Not that
you missed much this afternoon, for you didn’t, barring a lot of tired
muscles, but you often do miss things. To be what you call a ‘mixer,’
Dud, you’ve got to ‘mix,’ and you don’t know the first thing about it.
Fellows like you, all right, what they see of you, but you don’t give
them a chance.”

Dud stared thoughtfully at the green shade before him. “Ye-yes, I
suppose that’s true, Jimmy. But I don’t like to stick around when
fellows are getting up things because I think that maybe they won’t
want me in on it and that if I’m there they’ll think they have to ask
me.”

“Huh! What if they do have to ask you? Let ’em! Then when they see that
you’re a regular feller they’ll ask you next time without having to.”

“But I wonder if I am.”

“Am what?” asked Jimmy ungrammatically.

“A ‘regular feller.’ Maybe I’m not. I wonder――――”

Jimmy threw up his hands in despair. “Oh, gee, he’s at it again!
Dud, what you want to do is stop wondering. You’re the finest little
wonderer that ever came down the pike, all right, but you spend so much
time at it that you don’t get anywhere. Now, you take my advice, old
chap, and stop wondering whether fellows like you or don’t like you.
Just get out and butt in a little. When you see a crowd walk right into
the middle of it and find out whether it’s a fight or a frolic. And,
whatever it is, take a hand. Now there’s some mighty good advice, Dud,
take it from me. I didn’t know I had it in me! And let me tell you
another thing, kid. If you expect to have a show for the first team you
want to crawl out of your shell and rub shoulders with fellows. Get
hunky with the first team crowd, do you see? Be――be more of a――well,
more of a regular feller, like I said before. Don’t try too hard to
be popular, though. Fellows get onto that and won’t stand for it.
Just――just be natural!”

“I guess I’m being natural,” answered Dud, with a smile, “and that
is where the trouble is. I guess I’ll have to wait until next year.
A lower middle fellow feels sort of fresh if he tries to mix in with
upper middlers.”

“Piffle! Lots of your class are thick as thieves with upper middle
chaps. Look at young Whatshisname――Stiles. He’s always traveling with
upper middlers――Ordway and Blake and that bunch.”

“Ned Stiles has more cheek than I have. Besides, I don’t think fellows
like him particularly, Jimmy. He sort of toadies, doesn’t he?”

“He’s a perfect ass, if you ask me. But they seem to stand for him.”

“Well, but I don’t want to be ‘stood for’; I want fellows to――to want
me.”

“All right. Give ’em a chance then. You’re all right, Dud, only
you’re shy. That’s what’s the matter with you, old chap, you’re just
plain shy! Never thought of it before. Look here, now, I’ll tell you
what you do. You forget all about your dear little self and get over
being――being――gee, what’s the word I want? Being self-conscious! That’s
it! That’s your trouble, self-consciousness.” Jimmy beamed approval at
himself. “Best way to do it is to――to do it! Tell you what, we’ll make
a start tonight, eh? Let’s go out and visit someone. Who do you know
that you’d like to know better?”

“I’d like to know Hugh Ordway, for one,” said Dud hesitatingly. “But I
guess he wouldn’t care about knowing me, and so――――”

“Stow it! That’s just what you mustn’t do, do you see? You mustn’t
‘wonder’ whether a fellow wants to know you or not. You just take
it for granted that he does. Say to yourself, ‘I’m a good feller, a
regular feller. I’m as good as you are. Of course you want to know me.
Why not?’ See the idea?”

Dud nodded doubtfully. “Still, Hugh Ordway’s a bit――――”

“A bit what?” demanded Jimmy impatiently.

“I mean he’s awfully popular and has piles of friends and he wouldn’t
be likely to――to want to know me.”

“Oh, piffle! Ordway’s just like any of us――except that he happens to be
English and have a Lord or a Duke or something for a father. I don’t
know him very well myself, but that’s just because he trains with the
football crowd――Blake and Winslow and that bunch. But I know him plenty
well enough to visit, and that’s just what we’ll do this evening, Dud.”