III

29 LOTHROP


True to his promise――or threat, if you think with Dud――Jimmy haled his
protesting friend from room to room in the evenings, made him join
the throngs on the ice or the toboggan slide in the afternoons and on
all occasions dragged him into the conversations and, to use his own
expression, “got him in the spot-light.” It can’t be truthfully said
that his efforts met with overwhelming success, however. Dud didn’t
shine as a conversationalist or display any traits calculated to win
popularity. No one disliked him in the least. Most of the time few were
really conscious of his presence, in spite of Jimmy’s untiring efforts.
Personally, as has been suggested, Dud didn’t take kindly to being
exhibited and exploited, and when a fortnight or so after the inception
of the undertaking Jimmy actually got to telling jokes and crediting
them to Dud, the latter was supremely uncomfortable. Jimmy would
chuckle and say: “Dud got off a good one the other day, fellows.” And
then he would follow with some more or less brilliant remark or joke
that sounded to Dud horribly flat. Generally the hearers laughed and
shot surprised glances at the silent and embarrassed Dud, but he didn’t
win recognition as a wit or a sage for all of that. Had they heard the
things from Dud first-hand they might have been more impressed. As it
was the credit went rather to Jimmy than Dud.

Jimmy played Boswell to Dud’s Doctor Johnson with remarkable enthusiasm
and patience. He evolved all sorts of schemes, most of which his chum
promptly refused to consider, designed to waft Dud into the white light
of publicity. For instance, he conceived the brilliant idea of having
Dud write a notable article for _The Campus_, the school monthly. Dud
had no serious objection to that project, but it fell through because
neither of them could think of a subject to write on. Then Jimmy
suggested that Dud get someone to break through the ice on the river
so Dud could rescue him. Jimmy said he would be glad to impersonate
the drowning character if he wasn’t afraid of catching cold and having
rheumatism in his throwing arm. It was all highly entertaining for
Jimmy and he thoroughly enjoyed it, but Dud was getting very tired
of it. Every now and then Jimmy had what he called a “show down.” At
such times he would take a list from his drawer in the study table and
check off the names of fellows whose acquaintance Dud had succeeded in
making since the last time.

“Churchill, we got him. Check for Churchill. He was a brand new one,
wasn’t he? Roy Dresser, check. Dresser was rather a success, Dud. I
think he rather took to you. We must call there again. I’ll make a note
of that. Dresser’s room is a good place to meet fellows. Parker, check.
Parker’s an ass, anyway. Ayer――I say, Dud, we haven’t met Neil Ayer
yet. Do you know him at all?”

“Only to speak to.”

“We’ll go after Ayer this evening, then. I know where to find him. He
will be in Joe Leslie’s room, I guess. Foster Tray, check. Tray’s a
good sort. Zanetti――that’s another chap we’ve missed. We’ll have to
find him with Nate Leddy some time. I don’t know him at all. He’s a
good fellow to know, though. Stands in with the football and the track
crowds. I tell you what, Dud! Why not go out for the Track Team?”

“Because I can’t do anything,” laughed Dud.

“How do you know you can’t?” asked Jimmy, untroubled. “Besides,
you wouldn’t have to really _do_ anything. You could have a try at
something and you’d meet a lot of fellows. Jumping isn’t awfully hard.
Why not try the broad jump?”

“I couldn’t do that and pitch too, you idiot.”

“That’s so. I forgot. Still, some fellows do go in for baseball and
track. There’s Cherry, for instance. Well, never mind. Maybe we’d
better――er――concentrate.” Jimmy sat back and studied Dud speculatively,
tapping his pen against his teeth the while. “What we’ve got to do,
Dud,” he continued presently, in the tones of one who has reached a
weighty conclusion after much thought, “is to put it all over those
other box artists. That’s our line, Dud. We’ve got to spring you as a
startling phenom! Yes, sir, that’s the game!”

“That’s all well enough, Jimmy, but suppose I can’t pitch a little bit
when the time comes?”

“By Ginger, you’ve got to! Look here, you’re wasting time. You ought
to be at it every day. You ought to get down in the cage in the gym
and practice. What time is it now? Nearly six, eh? Too late today,
then. But tomorrow we’ll put in a half-hour, and the next day, too, and
right along until they call candidates. I’ll catch you. I’ll borrow a
mitt somewhere. It’ll be good fun, too. Practice for both of us. Great
scheme, eh?”

“Do you mind?” asked Dud eagerly.