“Yes, yes; this is a very poor showing,” agreed Mr. Sargent. “Well,
we’ll make a start, fellows. We’re going to have setting-up work this
afternoon and for a few days. How’s that, Barnes? No, no dumb-bells
today, thanks. Just get in line, fellows, will you? About four rows
will do. That’s it. Now then, follow me, please. And keep your mind on
what you’re doing. One, two, three, four! Stretch the arms out as far
as they’ll go. All right. Now the wrists; twist! One, two, three, four,
five, six, seven, eight――keep it up! All right!”

It soon became tiresome to Dud, for he hadn’t been in training and
the gymnasium work twice weekly had not been strenuous. It was, he
reflected, rather remarkable to find so many muscles that creaked
in unsuspected places! Almost in front of him, in the second row,
Star Meyer was going through the evolutions easily and gracefully
and untiringly, and with something of his usual haughty disdain for
anything not of his own devising. In gymnasium shirt and trunks Star
showed strong and muscular, and Dud felt a warm satisfaction over
the fact that he and Star had not come to blows that morning in the
bathroom! Star’s legs were things to admire as the muscles played over
them like whip-cords and Dud wished that he had paid a little more
attention to his physical condition during the past year or two. He
imagined that his own thin, elongated body must look strangely out of
place there with all those other well-conditioned ones. Further along,
where he could just be seen out of the corners of Dud’s eyes, stood
Jimmy, sturdy and stocky, loafing a bit when Mr. Sargent’s gaze was
not on him. Dud wanted to loaf, too, but didn’t dare.

The calisthenics lasted less than a half-hour, by which time Dud was
not the only one breathing hard and perspiring freely, and then Barnes
set the candidates’ names down. When it was Dud’s turn to register
Star Meyer was nearly at his elbow, a fact which added to Dud’s
embarrassment.

“Name?” asked the manager.

“Dudley Baker, Upper Middle.”

“Age, Baker?”

“Fifteen.”

“Experience?”

“I was on the second nine last year.”

“Position?”

“P-pitcher, please.”

Someone sniggered. It wasn’t Star, for Star never sniggered. It was too
low and common. Star only looked insultingly amused. Barnes looked a
little amused, too, although he tried not to.

“All right, Baker. Get on the scales and let me know your weight
tomorrow. Don’t forget, please.”

Dud, aware of more than one amused countenance, moved away and sought
the locker-room, conscious that his cheeks were very red. Jimmy,
already out of his gymnasium togs, noticed and frowned disapprovingly.

“Why the blushes, Dud?” he asked severely.

Dud muttered something evasive and passed on to his locker. But later
Jimmy wormed it out of him. Jimmy always could. And Jimmy frowned once
more. “We’ll have to do something with Star,” he said thoughtfully,
“something to make him have a little more respect for his betters. I
wonder――――”

Dud laughed. “I thought wondering was my stunt, Jimmy.”

“So it is. I don’t wonder, then. I――I merely speculate. Look here, Dud,
know what I think?” Dud shook his head hopelessly. “Well, then,” Jimmy
went on, “I think you’d better have a show-down with Star.”

“What sort of a――a show-down?” faltered Dud.

“I mean pick a quarrel with him and fight him. You see, Star has a good
deal of influence, and I’m afraid he’s been talking. One or two things
have reached me, you know. What we’d better do is make an impression on
him.”

“Thanks!”

“You’re not much of a slugger, are you?” Dud shook his head. “No, I
suppose not,” continued Jimmy thoughtfully. “Well, neither am I, but I
guess there are a few tricks I could teach you. Besides, I have a hunch
that Star isn’t any fonder of scrapping than you are. I wouldn’t be a
bit surprised if you could bluff him, Dud. Of course, I may be wrong,
but that’s my idea of him.”