Dud nodded.

“Was he mad?” demanded Jimmy eagerly. “Hello, what are you looking so
funny about? You didn’t――I say, Dud, you two didn’t――――” He paused
expressively.

“We had words,” replied Dud in low tones, “and he――slapped my face.”

“Slapped――――” Jimmy whistled. Then: “Great stuff, Dud! What did you
do? Where were you? I wish I’d seen it!”

“I didn’t do anything. Davy butted in. I’m going to fight him, though.”

“Of course! Slapped your face, eh, the big bully? That――that’s a
fighting matter, Dud. When are you going to do it?”

“He refused; said he wouldn’t bother with me; said he might break me in
two! But he’s got to fight, Jimmy!”

“You bet he has!” agreed Jimmy enthusiastically. “But listen: let me
get my shower. You wait for me, will you? We’ve got to talk this over,
you know.”

“There isn’t anything to talk over,” said Dud flatly. “He’s got to
fight me.”

“Yes, but if he says he won’t―――― You wait for me, see? I won’t be a
minute.” And Jimmy, beaming broadly, dashed off.

Dud found a corner by the door and waited, listening idly to the
chatter of the fellows. Nearby Foster Tray, struggling with a stubborn
shirt, remarked in smothered tones:

“Did you see Baker peg Star in the arm, Mil? It was a fierce old biff!”

“Yes,” replied Oscar Milford, “and Star was hopping mad.” He chuckled.
“Said Baker did it on purpose. Well, maybe he did. I don’t know. But
they say Baker’s got Star scared of him, for some reason.”

“Oh, piffle! A kid like that? Not likely! But it isn’t sense getting
mad about being hit with a ball. Gee, if I got peeved every time I got
whacked last year――――”

A good-natured altercation over the possession of a bath towel that
both Leddy and Parker laid claim to drowned the rest of Tray’s remark
and Dud slipped further along. Captain Murtha ran across him a moment
later and stopped an instant.

“Say, Baker, you did mighty well there for a while today. Keep it up,
old man. But don’t lay out any more of the team, eh? You might leave us
short-handed!” Guy laughed, nodded and went on, and presently, showing
numerous evidences of having dressed hurriedly, Jimmy arrived a bit
breathless and dragged Dud outside. There, one arm through Dud’s, he
led the way back to the dormitory.

“Now,” he demanded eagerly, “let’s have the whole story.”

“Well, I stepped on a pebble or something and the ball got away and hit
Star on the shoulder.”

“Yes,” chuckled Jimmy, “I saw that. Something ought to be done about
those pebbles!” And he winked meaningly.

“But it was a pebble!” declared Dud. “I didn’t mean to hit him!”

“You didn’t!” Jimmy was incredulous, incredulous and disappointed.
“Gee, I thought of course you did it so he’d get mad and fight! Are you
sure?”

“Yes, I am,” answered Dud shortly. “Don’t be a fool, Jimmy.”

“Oh, all right, then. It was an accident.” Jimmy sighed. “Then what?”

Dud brought the narrative to its conclusion by the time they were
crossing the campus, and Jimmy disengaged his arm in order to slap Dud
approvingly on the back. “Fine!” he declared. “Just what we wanted! By
the time we put this thing through, Dud, you’ll be the most talked-of
fellow in school!”

“I don’t want to be talked of. I’m sick of all that rot. All I want is
to show Star Meyer that he can’t slap me and――and get away with it!”

“Sure! But it’ll do you a lot of good if you lick him, don’t you see?
Fellows will call you a plucky kid and all that. Oh, there’s nothing to
it, Dud! Here’s where we make good, old son!”

“I’m not likely to lick him,” replied the other quietly. “I dare say he
will beat me to a pulp, but he won’t do it before I’ve got in a few,”
he added grimly.