XXIII

BEN TELLS A SECRET


The team missed connection at North Taunton coming back and had to kick
their heels about the platform there for more than an hour, reaching
school finally just before eight, a very tired lot. There was a cold
supper awaiting them in the dining-hall, and after that had been
demolished few of the fellows had inclination for anything but bed.

Jimmy, who had remained on the bench all the afternoon, was in a
particularly pessimistic frame of mind, and Dud’s last conscious memory
was of Jimmy, pajama-clad, seated on the edge of his bed, muttering
dire threats against Star Meyer.

Thursday was a busy day for Dud, with examinations beginning in real
earnest. In the corridor of School Hall at noon he was hailed by Roy
Dresser. “Say, Baker, Myatt’s looking for you. Told me to tell you to
drop around to his room if I saw you.”

As there was still a half-hour before dinner, Dud turned his steps
toward Lothrop and climbed the flight of slate steps that led to the
second corridor. Ben Myatt roomed with Nate Leddy in Number 8, and both
occupants of the two-room suite were in when Dud entered. He hadn’t
seen Myatt for several days and he was surprised to find him stretched
out on the couch looking rather pale and fagged.

“Hello, Dud,” he said. “Mind if I don’t get up? I’m feeling a bit rocky
today. Pull up a chair.” Dud replied to Leddy’s greeting and found a
seat. Leddy went on sorting some books at his desk. “Nate,” continued
Myatt, “has been telling me about your good work yesterday, Dud. I was
awfully glad to hear it, son. How’s the arm today?”

“Quite all right, thanks. Oh, it’s a little stiff, but I guess it will
limber up this afternoon.”

“Better go easy with it. Nine innings is quite a stretch the first
time. You’ve never gone the full limit before, eh?”

“No, and I thought for a while yesterday that I wasn’t going to be able
to. I guess Leddy told you what a mess I made of that fifth inning.”

Ben nodded. “I wonder,” he ruminated, “how many of us have had an upset
in that ‘fatal fifth.’ It seems that the fifth is crucial. Anyway, I’ve
always had a sort of superstition about it. If I can last out the fifth
I can go the limit, but almost every game I pitch something happens
in that inning. Sometimes it’s only a stumble and sometimes it’s a
regular fall-down. I dare say you thought it funny Pete didn’t pull
you out yesterday when you went bad, eh?”

Dud nodded his head. “Yes, I expected him to, and when he didn’t
I――well, I sort of thought he was keeping me in to――to discipline me. I
suppose he was.”

“Not exactly. We were talking you over the other evening; I guess it
was the night after the Lawrence game; and Pete said he guessed you
wouldn’t stand a full game this year but that you might next. I told
him you could stand it any time if he’d let you do it. ‘You put Baker
in a game that’s on ice,’ I said, ‘or a game you don’t particularly
care about winning and let him see himself through. Every pitcher has
got to get into trouble once and dig out again before he finds himself.
After he has done it once he knows that he can do it and after that he
does it.’ Pete thought I might be right and Guy said he was certain of
it. Great Scott, don’t I know? Haven’t I been through it? I’ve stood up
there with the crowd yelping and been so scared I couldn’t half see the
plate! Just had to trust to luck when I let ’em go that they wouldn’t
fly over the backstop! Don’t you feel, now that you’ve stood the gaff,
that you could start out this afternoon and pitch nine innings without
getting wobbly?”

“Yes, I think I could,” responded Dud cautiously. “But I mightn’t. When
a fellow’s stuff stops breaking right for him and a play goes wrong in
the infield and there are a couple on the bases――――”

“Right you are,” said Leddy. “I know the feeling, Baker. It’s the
deuce!”

“It sure is,” agreed Ben. “But what I’m trying to say is that a chap
has got to get good and scared and get over it before he’s worth a
hang in the box. You had your scare in the Lawrence game, Dud. I could
see just how you felt. But they had to pull you out to save the game.
You had another one yesterday and they didn’t have to pull you out and
you found it was up to you to crawl out of the hole all by yourself,
and you buckled down and did it. You didn’t know it, but if we’d been
trimmed thirty to nothing yesterday you’d still been in there pitching
’em over when the game ended! That was Pete’s plan from the first. ‘If
Baker’s in shape,’ he said to me, ‘I’ll put him in and let him pitch
the whole game.’”