XXVII

WINNING HIS GAME


Bases filled and only one out! Two balls and no strikes on the batsman!
A hit meant two runs across! All this Guy Murtha explained in quick,
troubled words to Dud. And Dud, tired of face but eager-eyed, nodded
quite as though Guy had explained that it was a fine day and that the
weather prediction was for a continuation of present conditions!

Then Guy went back to his place and the Grafton sympathizers stopped
cheering and Dud sped his five balls to Brooks, each one just where he
meant it to go.

Once more the batsman took his place and Dud pitched.

“Str-r-ike!” bawled the umpire, and waved an arm aloft. The batter
thumped the rubber with his bat. Again Dud launched the ball forward.
Again it sped straight and true across the platter and knee-high.

“Str-r-ike two!”

The batsman grew wary. He no longer fidgeted but put his whole mind on
the next delivery. Dud fumbled his cap, took his half wind-up and shot
his arm to the right and around in a swing. The ball flashed to the
plate and the umpire hurled his hand aloft with a mighty gesture.

“_He’s out!_”

Strident protest from the retreating batsman and from the Mount Morris
bench! Cheers wild and triumphant from the Grafton seats and from the
field! And another green-stockinged player faced his fate. A ball, a
strike, another ball. Then a drop that was swung at and never touched.
Two-and-two, and Mount Morris watching her opportunity slip from her
grasp. Then, while Dud swung his arm up, came a quick cry from behind
him:

“_He’s off!_”

The man at third was streaking to the plate! But so was the ball, and
although the batsman swung at it, it lodged safely in Brooks’ mitt and
Brooks, dropping to his knees, blocked the ambitious runner a foot from
the plate!

“Can you keep it up?” asked Mr. Sargent wonderingly as Dud sank to the
bench and Davy Richards flourished a towel in front of his face.

“I think so, sir. I’m going to try awfully hard,” answered Dud.

“Well, go easy on yourself this inning. Let them hit a little if you
like. There’s another inning coming and maybe several.”

“Yes, sir.” Dud’s gaze, straying along the bench, caught sight of
Jimmy, Jimmy dressed for play and with an anxious regard fixed on the
coach. “If you could, sir,” said Dud, “I wish you’d let Logan in. It
wasn’t our fault that we got left, sir; at least, not wholly; and
Jimmy’s crazy to play!”

“Logan? Maybe in the next inning. I’ll see. Here! What’s this?”

This was Star Meyer picking himself up from the water bucket, having
in some way tripped over one of Jimmy’s feet as he passed. Jimmy was
all sympathy and apologies, but Star only muttered. His haughtiness
was wholly lacking and the fellows viewed with real concern the almost
abject manner with which he righted the empty pail and retired into the
far end of the bench. But Jimmy, catching Dud’s eye, winked wickedly.

The eighth passed into history without witnessing a run for either
side. Grafton got Ordway to first on a pass and he went on a base when
Ayer lifted one to left for the second out. Then, while Boynton was
at bat, Hugh was caught napping at second and another chance to score
passed into oblivion.

Mount Morris’ first man got a hit and was thrown out at second on an
attempted steal, Brooks making as pretty a peg to Murtha as one could
hope to see. The next man struck out miserably. Then followed a
scratch hit that came near to being an error for Blake. The next man,
Saylor, flied out to Murtha and ended the eighth.

Boynton started for Grafton in the ninth by beating out a weak hit and
the scarlet pennants waved again. Meyer, bat on shoulder and stepping
to the plate, was recalled.

“Logan batting for Boynton!” called the umpire.

Jimmy swung at the first ball, disdained the next two, had a second
strike called on him, started for the next and changed his mind and
was glad of it and was finally passed when what Saylor had meant for
a strike over the inner corner went wrong. With two on bases, Brooks
was the man of the hour, but Brooks was no hitter and only stood there
while Saylor fooled him on two slow ones that went for strikes, wasted
a wide one on him and then made him bite at a drop that actually dusted
the plate. Although Brooks played the game to the last and sped for his
base the ball was recovered by the catcher and got there well ahead of
him.