X

THE CHALLENGE


“Come in!”

Starling Meyer turned from the window in Number 17 and faced the door.
Ernest Barnes, Star’s roommate, looked up from his book and glanced
curiously in the same direction as the portal opened briskly to admit
Jimmy Logan. It lacked but a few minutes of study hour and Jimmy, with
the door of the next room slightly ajar, had made certain of Star’s
return before starting on his errand. Beyond the partition――there was a
connecting door between the rooms, but that was never opened――Dud was
dubiously awaiting Jimmy’s report.

“Oh,” said Star eloquently as Jimmy advanced jauntily enough but with a
most sober countenance into the radius of light from the study table.
“Hello, Logan, what do you want?”

Barnes’ greeting was just a nod, civil but not enthusiastic, and having
made it he went back to his book.

“Hello, fellows,” said Jimmy. “Mind if I sit down, Meyer?”

“Help yourself.” Star eyed the caller suspiciously. “This is an
unexpected honor,” he added sarcastically.

Jimmy nodded. “Yes, isn’t it? Fact is, I’m on a painful errand, Meyer.
Mind if I speak before Barnes?”

“Oh, cut the comedy, Logan,” replied Star impatiently. “What nonsense
are you up to, anyway?”

“No nonsense at all, really,” Jimmy assured him earnestly. “It’s like
this, Meyer. I’m here on behalf of my friend, Baker. You see, he isn’t
just satisfied with the way things were left this afternoon. He feels
that――er――the matter ought to be settled more――er――more definitely. See
what I mean?”

“Oh, rot! I’m not going to fight that kid, Logan. He’s too small. Tell
him to forget it. And look here, you!” Star’s voice took on an edge. “I
want you to quit meddling in my affairs, too, Logan. I know what you’ve
been up to. You and that roommate of yours are altogether too fresh.”

“Me?” asked Jimmy innocently. “What have I done, Meyer?”

“You’ve talked a whole lot too much, that’s what you’ve done. And
you’ve egged Baker on to――to make trouble. I want you to stop it, both
of you.”

“Well, I may have talked some,” Jimmy allowed calmly. “Everyone has a
right to talk――――”

“If they’re careful what they say, yes! But――――”

“Anyway, that isn’t what I came to see you about. I’ve talked it over
with Dud and we’ve concluded that you ought to give him satisfaction.
You see, Meyer, slapping a fellow’s face and then refusing to go on
with it looks――well, a bit funny, eh? Now what we propose is that you
and Dud meet, say tomorrow afternoon at half-past five, down at the
Beach, and settle the matter in a quiet, gentlemanly way. What do you
say to that?”

“I say no,” replied Star shortly. “I haven’t any intention of fighting
him. All I will do is slap his face again if he doesn’t let me alone.
He’s been telling it around――or you have――that I’m afraid of him!”

“Um,” said Jimmy thoughtfully. “Well――er――if you don’t fight him won’t
it look as if he was right?”

Star flushed angrily. “Don’t be a fool, Logan! I’d take the two of you
on and lick the tar out of you if it wasn’t beneath me!”

“Oh, I see! Then I’m to tell Dud that you refuse?”

“Tell him anything you like! And now you get out of here or I’ll throw
you out!”

Barnes had displayed a remarkable aloofness up to the present moment,
but now he raised his eyes at last from his book and judicially, even
hopefully, compared the two before him. The result of the comparison,
however, seemed to disappoint him, for he sighed and went back to his
occupation again, apparently dismissing the matter from his mind.

“And what would I be doing?” asked Jimmy brightly. “I’ll tell you
frankly, Meyer, that your attitude is a great surprise to me. It’s a
great disappointment, too. I’d hoped for better things, Meyer. The
fellows are going to be mightily disappointed when they hear about it.”