V

DUD LOSES HIS TEMPER


“Winter,” observed Jimmy very disgustedly one morning toward the last
of February, “is sure ‘lingering in the lap of spring,’ as the poet
hath it. Between you and me, Dud, I guess winter’s fallen asleep there!
Here it is almost March and everything’s still covered up with snow or
ice. Or water,” he added a second later, his gaze falling to the pools
of melting snow that lay in the hollows of the campus.

The windows were wide open and the air that came in, while chill and
damp, still, somehow, held a suggestion――or perhaps a faint promise――of
spring. But the sky was leaden, between the walks the sod was hidden
under patches of dirty snow or ice that had begun to melt a little and
the whole morning world had a tired and bedraggled look. Jimmy, still
attired in pajamas, shivered and turned disapprovingly away. Then his
gaze fell on Dud and the disapproval increased, for Dud, half awake a
moment before, had nestled down on the rumpled pillow again and was
sleeping peacefully. Jimmy was righteously indignant.

“Wake up, you sluggard!” he bawled, pulling the clothes from the other.
“Here I’ve been talking to you for five minutes, saying perfectly
gorgeous things, and you haven’t heard a word! Get up, you lazy loafer,
and hear the birdies sing――or sneeze! Come out of there!”

Dud came out, rather in a heap, blinking confusedly, and strove to pull
the clothes from the bed to his shrinking form on the floor. But Jimmy
was merciless, and Dud was forced to arise grumblingly and rub his
sleepy eyes.

“Wh――what time is it?” he yawned.

“Never mind what time it is,” replied Jimmy severely. “It’s time you
were up and doing――――”

“‘With a heart for any fate,’” murmured Dud poetically if sleepily.
“What day is it?”

“Great Jumpin’ Jehosophat!” exclaimed Jimmy. “He doesn’t even know
the date! It’s a Tuesday, darling, and the month’s February, and the
year――――”

“Then it’s today practice begins,” said Dud. “I knew there was
something.” He arose and sought his bath robe. “I’ll bet it’s awfully
early. I don’t hear anyone up.”

“You hear me up,” responded his roommate. “As a matter of fact, I don’t
know just what time it is, because you forgot to wind the clock and my
watch has stopped and I couldn’t find yours. But it must be long after
six――――”

“Six!” grunted Dud in deep disgust. “What do you go pulling me out of
bed at six for? I’m going back again!”

“I said it was long after six. Where’s your watch? Have a look at it.”

Dud discovered that article at last dangling over the back of a chair,
it having escaped from a pocket, and in more mollified tones informed
Jimmy that it was twenty to seven. In the corridor a door opened and
slippered feet pattered toward the bathroom. Jimmy set his watch and
the clock, found his own robe and then, pausing at the door, asked
solicitously:

“How’s the old arm, Dud?”

“Sore,” was the answer. Dud bent it and flexed it――it was his right
one――and observed it scowlingly. “It’s lame all the way to the
shoulder. _Ouch!_ And the shoulder’s lame, too!”

“Too bad,” said Jimmy. “I was afraid you might overdo it, Dud.”

“Well, whose silly idea was it, anyway?” demanded Dud indignantly. “Who
suggested practicing every day, I’d just like to know?”

“I did, of course, but I didn’t tell you to do too much of it and lame
yourself, did I? What you’ve gone and done, Dud, is catch cold in it.
You ought to be mighty careful that way. You ought――――”

“Oh, dry up,” grumbled Dud. “You make me tired. If you know so pesky
much about it, why didn’t you say something before? I wouldn’t have
caught cold in it if you hadn’t insisted on slopping around in that
rink yesterday with the water up to your ankles! No wonder I caught
cold!”

“Well, you’ll have to lay off a few days, old chap. It’ll be all right
again, I guess.”

“That’s fine, isn’t it, when I’ve got to report for practice this
afternoon?”