“Hello, Jimmy,” said Bert Winslow. “What are you doing up here? Haven’t
seen you around here for ages.” He spoke to Dud then, hesitating a
moment as though not certain of the latter’s name. Dud, noting the
fact, felt his embarrassment increase and wished that Jimmy would
give the word to leave. But Jimmy had already abandoned thoughts of
withdrawing. He liked Bert Winslow, just as most fellows did, and
welcomed the chance to talk to him. Bert and Jimmy were both members of
“Lit”――short for Literary Society――and only two evenings ago had been
pitted against each other in one of the impromptu weekly debates and
had struggled along nip and tuck until Jimmy, abandoning facts, had in
a wild flow of rhetoric won the meeting. Bert alluded to it now as he
tossed his cap through the open door of his bedroom.

“Jimmy, that was a fine lot of hot air you got off the other night,” he
said with a grin. “Didn’t your folks ever teach you anything about the
beauties of truthfulness?”

Jimmy laughed. “Sure, but I had to beat you somehow, Bert. Besides,
what I said may be so for all I know!”

“Huh! You just said the first thing that came into that silly head of
yours! Did you ever hear such a mess of rot as he sprang, Hugh?”

Hugh smiled. “It sounded all right! Some of the figures were corking.
You must have a wonderful memory, Logan!”

“Memory!” snorted Bert, seating himself beside Hugh on the window-seat.
“There wasn’t a figure that was right! I looked it up afterwards. Did
you hear him, Baker? Oh, no, you’re Forum, aren’t you?”

“Yes,” replied Dud. He tried very hard to follow that up with something
brilliant or amusing in regard to Jimmy’s debating, but couldn’t think
of anything, possibly because Bert’s tone had held some of the careless
contempt with which members of a society spoke of its rival, and Dud
wished just for the moment that he, too, was “Lit.”

Perhaps Hugh thought that his chum had verged on discourtesy, for
he observed quickly: “They tell me you chaps have some awfully good
talkers in Forum, Baker.”

Dud agreed. “I guess Joe Leslie is our best; he and Guy Murtha.”

“Murtha’s better than Joe, I think,” said Jimmy. “Anyway, he did a lot
better last year in the debate with Mount Morris.”

“Joe’s a wonder at hammering home facts,” said Bert. “Guy’s better at
the eloquence stuff, though. Speaking of Guy, Hugh, reminds me that I
told him you were going to try for the outfield this spring and he said
he was mighty glad because if you could get on the base he was certain
you could get around.”

“Oh, but I say, Bert, I don’t know that I shall! Try for baseball, I
mean.”

“Of course you will!”

“But I don’t know much about it. You say it’s quite different from
cricket, eh?”

“Quite, ’Ighness! You’ve seen baseball played, haven’t you?”

“Oh, yes, once or twice, but――――”

“I should think a fair cricket player would easily get the hang of
baseball,” said Jimmy. “I guess it’s as hard to catch a cricket ball as
a baseball, isn’t it? I suppose you’re a rattling good cricket player,
Ordway.”

“Oh, no, really I’m not,” exclaimed Hugh. “I’ve played a bit at it, of
course. You chaps bowl――I mean pitch to the batters so like thunder,
don’t you? I fancy I’ll be scared to stand up there, eh?”

“You might if Gus Weston was pitching,” laughed Bert. “You going to
play this year, Jimmy?”

“Oh, I guess so. What would the dear old second do without me?”

“Aren’t you trying for the first, though? You’re as good a fielder as
Parker, I guess.”

“I may. The fact is, Bert, I’m sort of used to the dear old second. It
would be like leaving home to go to the first. Still, I may decide to
break home ties and meet you fellows there.”

“I fancy you’re not likely to meet me there,” said Hugh. “I’ll be an
awful dub if I try it, I know. Do you play, Baker?”

“A little,” answered Dud.

“Dud’s the coming Mathewson,” said Jimmy. “Got to watch him, we have.
Some twirler!”