IV

A CHANCE MEETING


Two days after the visit to Hugh Ordway’s room Jimmy Logan’s joke
which he had attributed to Dud bore unexpected fruit. The remark
had tickled the fellows who had heard it and consequently they very
promptly repeated it, with the natural result that within twenty-four
hours it got around to Starling Meyer himself. Star, as he was
generally called, was a large, good-looking boy of seventeen, well
supplied with self-conceit. He was a rattling good hockey player,
undoubtedly the best in school, and a fair performer with the second
nine in the outfield. There his athletic prowess ended, for he
considered――or pretended to consider――track sports unimportant and
football unscientific. He was a clever student and stood high in
class, and was, in consequence, rather a favorite with the faculty.
As a member of the Forum Society his activities were critical rather
than constructive, for he took no part in the debates beyond attending
them and pointing out the deficiencies of the debaters in a superior
manner. Most fellows liked him, especially those who were not clever
in the lines he affected, and even those who saw through his poses and
couldn’t stand his conceit accorded him honor for his brilliancy in
class-room and on the ice. Although Star roomed next door to Dud, the
latter knew him only as he knew three-fourths of the students, that is,
to nod to on passing. Once or twice, since they had both been rather
unimportant members of the second baseball team last year, they had
spoken. But beyond that they were strangers, and so when, two days
after that visit to 29 Lothrop, Star Meyer stopped Dud in front of Trow
by the simple but effective method of seizing him by the arm, Dud was
somewhat surprised. Star was scowling and Dud didn’t need more than
one glance at his face to realize that he was angry. Even when angry,
however, Star didn’t allow himself to forget his pose of contemptuous
superiority, and now when he spoke he managed a one-sided smile
designed to remind Dud of the honor being done him.

“Baker, you’re a remarkably fresh young kid,” began Star, “and some day
that mouth of yours is going to get you into a heap of trouble. Ever
think of that?”

Dud, puzzled, moved restively in the bigger boy’s grasp but failed to
get free. “I don’t know what you mean, Meyer,” he protested.

“Yes, you do. What’s the good of lying? After this you leave my name
out of your funny jokes; hear?”

“I don’t know what――――” began Dud again. Then recollection of Jimmy’s
bon-mot came to him and he flushed.

“The next time I’ll kick you from here to the river,” said Star in a
quietly venomous tone. “I’d do it now for a couple of buttons, too. You
leave my name strictly alone, Baker, after this. Understand me?”

“Yes, but honest, Meyer, I didn’t say――――” Then, however, Dud had to
stop, for, although innocent, to insist on the fact would put the blame
on Jimmy. He dropped his eyes. “All right,” he muttered.

Somehow that phrase seemed to add fresh fuel to Star’s smoldering
anger, for he took a fresh and very painful grip on Dud’s arm and said:
“All right, is it? Well, it isn’t all right, kid! You’re a sneaky
little bounder, that’s what you are! Saying smart-aleck things and then
trying to lie out of it! Don’t you ever mention my name again. If you
do I’ll get you and you won’t forget it in a hurry. Now you beat it!”

[Illustration: “‘You’re a sneaky little bounder, that’s what you are!’”]

With a sudden wrench at the captive arm, Star spun Dud around and aimed
a kick at him. Fortunately, a premonition of what was happening
caused Dud to jump aside and Star’s foot missed its goal. Dud, angry
himself now, turned with clenched fists and flashing eyes. But the
situation was distinctly hopeless. Star topped him by a head and Dud
was suddenly conscious of his own physical inferiority. Still he
might have tried conclusions had it not been for the smile of haughty
contempt on the other’s countenance. Somehow that smile was too much.
It seemed to say: “What, you dare to show disrespect to _me_? Begone,
impious mortal!” Dud’s fingers straightened again, he gulped down his
resentment, stole a doubtful glance at a group of fellows who were
looking on curiously from the dormitory steps and walked away, trying
his best to appear dignified and unconcerned but secretly feeling like
a whipped cur. Later, when he recounted the episode to Jimmy the latter
took him to task vigorously.

“Why didn’t you tell him you didn’t say it? I’m not afraid of the big
fraud!”

“Considering you’d told everyone that I had said it――――”

“Yes, that’s so.” Jimmy frowned mightily. “Well, then, why didn’t you
light into him? Don’t you see that the fellows who were watching you
will think you were afraid of him?”