IX

JIMMY TAKES CHARGE


Dud’s first impulse was to turn back, but one of Star’s audience had
seen him already, and so, after a moment of hesitation, he went on and,
since Star had his back toward the door, reached his locker before the
speaker saw him. Then there was an instant’s silence. Dud pulled open
the locker door, took his towel out and dropped it on the bench. Then:

“Got canned, did you?” asked Star. “Maybe you’ll learn after a while
that you can’t do that sort of thing and get away with it.”

“I didn’t mean to hit you, Meyer, honestly,” returned Dud. “I――I’m
awfully sorry. There was a pebble or something――――”

“Oh, forget your pebbles! You know very well you meant to hit me.
You’ve been doing a lot of talking around school lately. I’ve heard it.
And I’d have given you a mighty good spanking if you’d been big enough
to notice.” Star had walked around the end of the bench and now faced
Dud like an outraged Jove from a yard away. Dud tried hard to appear
undisturbed, but the mere publicity was enough to send the blood into
his cheeks and put a tremor in his voice as he answered.

“I haven’t been talking about you, Meyer,” he said as stoutly as he
could. “And, anyhow, you needn’t try to bully me. I’ve apologized for
that――that accident, and that’s all I can do.”

“Oh, you apologize, do you?” Star laughed amusedly. “Well, apologies
don’t answer, kid. If you weren’t so small I’d kick you around the
room, you――you ugly-faced little insect!”

“Never mind my size!” cried Dud, throwing discretion to the winds in
the sudden flare of anger. “And never mind about my looks, either! Any
time you want to start kicking you go ahead, Meyer! I’m not afraid of
you! You’re a bluff, a big bluff, that’s all you――――”

Star’s right hand shot out suddenly and the open palm landed hard on
Dud’s cheek. The blow sent him sprawling across the bench, but he was
on his feet again in an instant, his face white save where the impact
of Star’s hand had left a tingling red stain. Star, smiling crookedly,
had stepped back, ready for Dud’s rush. But the rush wasn’t made, for
at that instant “Davy” Richards’ voice came sternly from the doorway.

“Here, boys! Stop that! Look you, Meyer, leave him alone! What mean you
hitting a boy beneath your size, eh?” Davy was Welsh and when excited
relapsed into a brogue as broad as it was difficult of reproduction in
type. Star looked around, shrugged his shoulders and laughed lightly.

“I wasn’t hitting him, Davy. I merely slapped his face for him. If I
ever really hit him he’d know it!”

“Well, no more of it in this house! ’Tis no place for fighting. And you
there, you, Baker, behave yourself, do you hear me? No more now or I’ll
take a hand myself!” Davy retired grumbling, and one of the audience
of three chuckled as he got up and sauntered out. The others exchanged
glances of amusement and went on with their dressing. Star nonchalantly
retired to his own bench, leaving Dud standing with clenched fists and
angry face in the middle of the floor, for once unconscious of the
curious gazes of others.

“It isn’t finished yet, Meyer,” he said at last in a low voice.

Star glanced up contemptuously. “You’ll be finished if you try any more
funny stunts with me, Baker,” he said threateningly. “And I want you to
stop talking about me, too. Hear that? The next time I’ll do a lot more
than slap your ugly face for you!”

“You’ll fight me!”

“I wouldn’t bother to!” Star laughed. “I might break you in two if I
hit you!”

“You’ll fight me,” reiterated Dud doggedly. “If you won’t――――”

He stopped, for Davy was glowering at him from the doorway.

“Look you, Baker, what I say I mean! One more word about fighting while
you’re in this place and out you go!”

Dud subsided and silence reigned until the door opened to admit a
number of released second team candidates, by which time Dud was ready
for his shower. When he returned to the lockers Star had gone. By that
time the room was crowded from end to end, for practice was over and
some forty-odd boys were struggling for space. Jimmy spied his chum and
pushed his way to him.

“Oh, Dud, it was fine!” he whispered delightedly. “Only why didn’t you
put it a foot or so higher and ‘bean’ him? Did you see him again?”