“I can’t smoke,” interrupted Dud practically. “They won’t let me, and I
don’t like it anyway.”

Jimmy waved his hand airily. “You get the idea, though, Dud. ‘Too proud
to fight’ is your line, old chap. Now shut up and let me think.”

Jimmy’s thinking resulted in action. That afternoon about four he might
have been observed lingering idly in front of School Hall, hands in
pockets, whistling tunelessly, evidently quite at a loose end. Nick
Blake tried to entice him up to Lit to play pool, Gus Weston suggested
the joys of a trip to the village for hot soda and Pete Gordon strove
to lure him to his room. Jimmy resisted heroically and was left to his
devices. It was a particularly disagreeable afternoon, with a hard
wind freezing the pools along the walk, and Jimmy from time to time
glanced impatiently at the big doors behind him. But it was nearly the
half-hour before they finally opened again to emit Ned Stiles. Warned
by the creaking of the portal, Jimmy instantly assumed the appearance
of one who, passing, has his attention attracted by the sound of an
opening door. This in the face of the fact that he had been all along
aware that Stiles, in trouble with Mr. Gibbs, the history instructor,
had been having an after-school séance with “Gusty” in a classroom.
Stiles was an upper middler, seventeen years old, an uninteresting and
rather sycophantic youth whom Jimmy secretly disliked very much. Stiles
suspected the fact and was consequently somewhat surprised when Jimmy,
after nodding briefly, halted and awaited him at the foot of the steps.

“Hello, Stiles. Rotten day, isn’t it? Seen Guy Murtha lately?”

Stiles shook his head, changing his books from one elbow to the other
in order to reach his handkerchief and blow a very red nose. Stiles
always had a cold in winter and snuffled from October to April.

“Can’t find him anywhere,” continued Jimmy in preoccupied tones,
accommodating his steps to those of the other boy and continuing on
toward Trow. “Star Meyer said he thought he’d gone to the village. I
want to see him awfully.”

“I haven’t seen him all day, I guess,” said Stiles. He was hoping
that some of the fellows would look from their windows and see him
hob-nobbing with Jimmy.

“Well, I guess I can get him at supper,” said the latter. Then he
chuckled, and, in response to Stiles’ unspoken question, explained, “I
was thinking of Star. He hasn’t got over it yet, I guess. Grumpy as
anything he was.”

“Got over what?” asked Stiles eagerly.

“Didn’t you hear about it?” Jimmy looked at him incredulously. “Why,
Dud Baker gave him an awful calling down this morning and Star took it
like a lamb. Say, that kid certainly has got spunk!”

Stiles viewed the other suspiciously, but Jimmy’s countenance expressed
truth and quiet amusement. Stiles grunted. Then he said “Huh!”
doubtfully.

“Star was mad as a hornet about something Dud said; some joke or other,
you know.”

Stiles nodded. “Yes, about the hockey team dying of Star-vation.”

“Was that it? Well, anyway, he got after Dud and wanted Dud to
apologize and Dud told him to chase himself, that it was all true and
that every fellow in school knew it, and a lot more. And Star was mad
enough to bite! Think of Dud getting away with it!”

“I saw it,” said Stiles, “but it didn’t look――just like that to me.
Star had Baker by the arm and it looked like he was reading the riot
act to him. And then he tried to kick him and Baker beat it.”

“Good thing for Star he did, then,” said Jimmy knowingly. “I’d hate to
stand up to Dud Baker when he was riled!”

“I didn’t know he was――that sort,” said Stiles interestedly. They had
reached the entrance to Trow and paused at the door.

“Dud Baker? Didn’t you ever hear why he left the school he was at
before he came here?”

Stiles shook his head.

“Well, it isn’t a nice story to tell, although it wasn’t all Dud’s
fault. I heard it from a fellow who was there and saw it. In fact, he
helped to carry the other fellow to his room. He was three years older
than Dud and a whole head taller, too, they say. But Dud isn’t the sort
of fellow you can bully. Or he wasn’t. Nowadays Dud will stand a lot.
I guess after that fracas he learned to keep his temper. The other
fellow was in bed a month. It was such a close shave for him that it
sort of sobered Dud up and he will go most any length now to keep from
scrapping. He’s got an awful punch, they say.”