“Haven’t I been telling you――――”

“And I heard him say it,” added Dud hastily, “why, that would be
different.”

“Oh, if you’re going to wait for him to knock you down!”

“I’m not,” replied Dud indignantly, “but I can’t fight him for nothing
at all!”

“Huh!” Jimmy viewed his chum gloomily. “I don’t see what use it is then
to go to all that trouble to learn to fight if――if you aren’t going to
make use of――of your knowledge. That’s an economical waste, Dud. And
waste is sinful.”

“It isn’t a waste,” said Dud. “It’s a good thing to know how to defend
yourself. Besides, that boxing business has put my arm back in shape
for pitching. It feels great nowadays. Just feel of that muscle, Jimmy.”

“Not bad,” decided the other, grudgingly. Then, more brightly: “Say,
you ought to be able to hand Star a peach of a wallop with that, Dud!
Well, all we can do is hope for the best. We don’t want to fight, but
if we have to――――”

“We?” queried Dud. “I don’t see where you come into it! You’re always
talking about ‘we’ fighting Star Meyer, but it’s me――――”

“I,” said Jimmy sweetly.

“It’s I, then, who would have to do it. If you want Star licked so
plaguey much why don’t you do it yourself?”

Jimmy considered a moment. “Well, say, that isn’t a bad idea,” he
replied at last. “Someone ought to do it, that’s sure! If you’re quite
certain you don’t mind――――”

“I’m dead sure,” said Dud emphatically.

“Then maybe――――” Jimmy felt of his arm muscles. “I’ll think it over,”
he concluded thoughtfully.

Baseball practice had by this time really become baseball practice.
I mean by that that the period of dumb-bell exercises and setting-up
drills had passed and the candidates, reënforced by some dozen or so
late-comers, were passing and batting and learning the tricks of the
game. The battery candidates comprised Nate Leddy, Ben Myatt, Gus
Weston, Will Brunswick, Joe Kelly and Dud Baker, pitchers, and Pete
Gordon, Hal Cherry and Ed Brooks, catchers. Of the pitchers, Myatt was
last year’s star and a clever twirler, Leddy was a good man but not
so dependable. Weston had speed but little control, and the others
were still unknown quantities, except that both Kelly and Dud had
twirled a few times for the second nine the spring before. Pete Gordon
was the regular catcher and Brooks the second-choice man. Cherry was
a beginner who showed promise. At the end of the first two weeks of
indoor work, the battery candidates were given their first try-out one
afternoon at the conclusion of the regular practice, and Dud, somewhat
to his surprise, survived. Still, as Jimmy kindly pointed out to him
later, that didn’t mean much since it was the custom to keep all the
would-be pitchers until the team got out of doors. Nevertheless, Dud
was encouraged and did his level best to make good. Myatt, a big,
likable chap of eighteen or over, took a real interest in the efforts
of the younger members of the staff and was generous with advice and
instruction. One afternoon, shortly before the candidates got out-doors
for the first time, he took Dud in hand after practice.

“Say, Baker,” Ben called as Dud was leaving the cage, “got time to
pitch me a few?”

Dud, pulling his glove off, turned back. “Why, yes,” he answered. “Want
me to?”

“Yes. Yell to Ed Brooks to lend me his mitt, will you?” A minute later
Ben took his place in front of the net and thumped the big mitten
encouragingly. “All right now, boy! Try a few easy ones. That’s nice. I
say, Baker, mind if I give you a hint or two?”

“I’d be awfully glad if you would,” replied Dud eagerly. “I know I’m
not much good.”

“Who says so?”

“I do.” Dud smiled.

But Ben shook his head reprovingly. “You ought to be the last one to
say it,” he announced gravely. “First thing you want to do, boy, is
stop tying yourself in a knot on your wind-up. You’ll never last nine
innings if you go through all that gymnastic stuff. What’s the big
idea?”

“I don’t know,” faltered Dud. “That’s the way I’ve always done it, I
suppose.”