XX

JIMMY ENCOURAGES


That game with Lawrence Textile went to thirteen innings and ended,
still a tie, 1 to 1, to allow the visitors to get their train. Nate
Leddy, going to the rescue with three on, two out and the pitcher’s
score one-and-three, pulled out of the hole very neatly. Instead of
attempting the difficult feat of striking the batsman out, Nate dropped
one over knee-high and the ball went straight up from the swinging bat
and straight down again into Gordon’s mitten, and Lawrence saw her
golden opportunity vanish. After that for three innings, although the
suspense kept up every moment, neither side got anywhere near a score.
Leddy and Fairway, the latter showing fatigue and substituting control
for speed, were masters every minute. Fairway’s work to the very end
was such that the spectators applauded him every time he left the mound
or went to bat. After that hair-raising, nerve-racking tenth inning,
Grafton could feel only satisfaction at the outcome. Even Captain
Murtha had no regrets, and if Coach Sargent was disappointed he made
no sign.

Perhaps, aside from the Lawrence players, the only disconsolate one
was Dud. He had hurried from his shower straight to his room, his
main desire being to get out of the way before the game ended and the
fellows came piling into the Field House, and so he didn’t learn the
outcome of the contest until Jimmy arrived, half an hour later. By
that time Dud’s common sense had come to the rescue and he was able
to review his performance in the pitcher’s box without being prompted
to suicide. After all, he had fared no worse than Gus Weston, he told
himself comfortingly, and even Ben Myatt had begun distributing passes
before he had been taken out; although, of course, Ben had far more
excuse for giving out, since he had pitched six innings.

Dud was still wondering what had happened to him. He had been all right
until Boynton had made that memorable muff. After that he hadn’t been
able to get the ball where he wanted it. It wasn’t that his arm had
tired. It had been just as good as when he had started. And, as Dud
recalled it now, he hadn’t been nervous; not, anyway, until he had
issued that first pass in the tenth. It just seemed, looking back on
the fiasco, that the ball had suddenly simply refused to go where it
was sent! He wondered whether Mr. Sargent would ever give him another
chance, whether the fellows were secretly laughing at him. Well, he had
surely afforded Bert Winslow a fine opportunity to say “I told you so!”
Bert had all along been politely contemptuous of Dud’s ambition to make
the first team, although of late he had been very decent to him indeed.
He rather hoped he wouldn’t run across Bert for a day or two!

Dud didn’t make the mistake of feeling himself disgraced, at least not
after the first few miserable minutes, but he did feel that he had
failed pretty badly as a pitcher, and that before the whole school,
and he dreaded having to face the fellows again. He was pondering the
idea of remaining away from dining-hall that evening when Jimmy came
tramping along the corridor and entered.

“Hello, you! Where’d you get to?” Jimmy skimmed his cap to the bed and
threw himself tiredly into a chair. “Did you see the game out?”

Dud shook his head. “What――what was the score?” he asked dejectedly.

“Just the same as when you ducked; one each.” Jimmy gave a brief but
graphic history of the final three innings. “Why didn’t you come back
and see the rest of it?” he concluded.

“I guess I would have if I’d known they weren’t beating us. I’m glad
they didn’t. Did――did anyone say anything?”

“Say anything? What about?”

“About me, I mean.”

“Oh, that’s what’s worrying you? I thought you looked a little bit
down-hearted. Don’t you let that bother you, son. They all have to
go through with that before they arrive. You did pretty well, on the
whole. Three strike-outs, wasn’t it? And then you pulled us out of
that hole in the seventh! Don’t be a clam, Dud. No one expects a green
pitcher to go into a game like that and twirl like a veteran. Why, the
row those fellows kicked up even made _me_ nervous, away out in the
field!”

“It wasn’t that,” said Dud sadly. “I don’t know what it was. Of course,
I was rattled just at first, but afterwards I didn’t pay any attention
to the noise. I guess Mr. Sargent thinks I’m a pill!”

“Rot! I’ll bet you lasted longer than Pete expected you to. Of course,
I’m not saying that it wouldn’t have been a bully thing for you if
you’d gone the distance; you’d have had the whole school inviting you
to dinner; but you did pretty well as it was. And, say, talking about
that――being popular, I mean, and making a hit――that little meeting with
Hobo and Blake was a lucky thing for us, wasn’t it? Look at the way
they’ve taken you up, Dud! Fine, what?”