“But you say they played Star in center. And you’re after right, aren’t
you?”

“I’m after anything I can get, son. A fellow who can play center can
play right or left, can’t he? An outfielder’s just an outfielder, you
see, and you can’t play more than three of ’em at a time――and get away
with it. Just now there are about six of us, all trying for three jobs.
I wish Star Meyer would go soak his head and not butt in on baseball!”

Dud laughed. “You might suggest it to him, Jimmy. Who pitched besides
Myatt? Did Brunswick get in?”

“Nobody. Ben went the distance. They couldn’t touch him much after that
rotten third. Got a couple of hits in the fifth and about one each
inning after that. They made their last run in the eighth with two
down. A fellow cracked a two-bagger down the left foul-line and tried
to steal third, and did it because Winslow let the ball drop. Then the
next fellow hit an easy one to Ayer and Myatt didn’t cover base in time
and the chap on third scrambled in. I guess it was just as well Pete
didn’t derrick Ben, after all, because he certainly pitched a corking
game after that third inning. Gee, but I’m hungry! Wish I was at
training table,” he added wistfully. “They get steaks there!”

They went over to Nick Blake’s room after supper and found Hugh and
Bert and Guy Murtha there, and there was much baseball talked and
many “might-have-beens” discussed. Dud, as a non-participant, had
little to say, and Hugh, who might have talked a good deal since he
had rather distinguished himself by his work at the bat and on the
bases, was almost as silent. After awhile, on the excuse of showing
Dud a new book, Hugh led the other off upstairs and they settled down
full-length on the window-seat, beside the open casements, and had a
fine, chummy talk. Dud could talk well enough when there was but a
single listener, and tonight Hugh found the younger boy far from dull.
By the time Bert Winslow came in, yawning, they had discovered numerous
bonds of sympathy such as mutual likes and dislikes and an intense
desire to make good at baseball. Hugh, entering the game as the veriest
tyro and with a deal of doubt and not much enthusiasm, was now a rabid
“fan” and almost amusingly eager to make a name for himself.

Bert, I think, wanted to go to bed, but was too polite to start while
there was a visitor present, and so toppled into a chair and joined the
conversation. Dud realized that Bert didn’t care very much for him and
so tried to get away a few minutes after the other’s advent, but Hugh
wouldn’t have it.

“Oh, sit down and behave yourself, Baker! It isn’t late. I say, Bert,
Baker and I have been discovering that we have lots of things in
common, if you know what I mean.”

“Really?” Bert stifled a yawn. “Such as what, ’Ighness?”

“Oh, baseball, for one, you know. Tennis, too. And oysters――――”

“Oysters!”

“Yes. You see I happened to think that a dozen nice cold raw oysters
would taste corking. They would, wouldn’t they?”

“Out of season, you chump.”

“Never! That’s only prejudice, old chap. Well, anyway, oysters was one
thing――_were_ one thing, I should say. English is beastly confusing at
times, eh? And then we found that Baker knew my part of the country,
down Maryland way, you know. He comes from Delaware.”

“So would I,” laughed Bert.

“Delaware,” replied Dud, smiling, “is small but select. Where’s your
home, Winslow?”

“Pennsylvania; Shrevesport. Know it?”

Dud shook his head. “Some of my folks lived in Pennsylvania once, a
good many years ago.”

“It’s a good state. They were foolish to leave it,” yawned Bert. “Hope
they didn’t have to?”

“Why, in a way I believe they did. You see one of them was an officer
in the American Army, and when Howe occupied Philadelphia they thought
it might not be healthy.”

“Oh,” said Bert. Hugh smiled.

“Still,” continued Bert, “they needn’t have gone to Delaware, eh?”

“I don’t think they did just then. A couple of them were with
Washington at Valley Forge. I think the women went to New Jersey until
Philadelphia was evacuated again. I don’t know just what happened
then. We’ve been living in Delaware only since my grandfather’s time.
He moved there from Philadelphia to improve his state.”