“So you intend to talk some more, do you?” demanded the other
exasperatedly.

“Me? Oh, my, no! But these things have a way of getting out, you know,
Meyer.” Jimmy shook his head sadly. “This school is a frightfully
gossipy little community.” He got up and turned toward the door. “If
you think better of it, all you’ve got to do is just let me know. I
wish you’d think it over, Meyer.”

“You get out of here!” retorted Star threateningly.

“I’m going. I don’t know what Dud will say, though, when I tell him!”

“I fancy,” sneered Star, “that he will be a good bit relieved!”

“Dud? Oh, dear, no!” responded Jimmy gently. “He’s awfully keen about
it, Dud is. It’ll be a horrible disappointment to him, Meyer. Well, so
long.”

Jimmy passed out with melancholy mien, closing the door softly behind
him and then pausing an instant to chuckle before he opened the next
portal. A moment later his expression of wicked glee changed to one of
utmost decorum, for to his surprise he found that Dud had a visitor and
that the visitor was none other than Mr. Russell. Mr. Russell, better
known as “J. P.,” was the Greek instructor and one of the house masters
in Trow. Jimmy said “Good evening, sir,” in the most deferential tones,
shot a quick, inquiring glance at Dud and then paused uncertainly.

“Am I in the way, Mr. Russell?” he asked.

“Not at all, Logan. I’ve finished my business with Baker. Possibly I’d
better acquaint you with it and enlist your assistance.” Mr. Russell
smiled gently. “We’ve heard that Baker had a quarrel this afternoon
with another boy and was heard to threaten him. As you know, both of
you, fighting is not tolerated here, and I felt it my duty to drop
in and warn Baker against――ah――any infringement of the rules. He has
explained the circumstances and I must acknowledge that he has grounds
for――ah――complaint. But the matter must be settled amicably, boys, and
I shall depend on you, Logan, as an older boy, to see that your friend
here does nothing he will be sorry for. Personally, I believe that
there is something to be said for――ah――a physical encounter under such
circumstances, but rules are rules and we are here to obey them. You
agree with me, Logan?”

“Absolutely, sir,” replied Jimmy emphatically.

“Then I may depend on you to see that nothing occurs which――ah――――”

“You may, sir,” said Jimmy resolutely. “In fact, I’ve already been
talking it over with Dud, Mr. Russell, and I’m certain he doesn’t
intend to make any trouble. You see, just at first he was a bit peeved.
Any fellow would have been if another fellow had slapped his face like
that. But after I’d talked to him a while――――”

Jimmy paused because Dud was grinning and Mr. Russell had emitted what
was an unmistakable chuckle.

“I’m afraid, Logan, your counsel didn’t prevail, after all,” said the
instructor, “for I found Baker in a decidedly uncompromising state of
mind. I think you’d better have another talk with him.” Mr. Russell
arose, still smiling, and moved to the door. “My advice to both you
boys is to be sensible. Good evening.”

“Now what the dickens did he mean by that?” asked Jimmy, frowning
perplexedly after the instructor. Dud laughed.

“He meant that your bluff didn’t fool him a bit, you silly ass, if you
want to know. I told him I meant to fight Meyer the first chance I got.
Then you came in and began talking too much, as usual.”

“Oh!” said Jimmy, grinning. “So that’s it? Well, now what’s to be done?
I put it up to Star and he ab-so-lutely refused the invitation.”

“I guess that ends it,” said Dud. “I certainly don’t intend to have any
scrap with him now when faculty’s on the watch. J. P. says they’d chuck
me if I got caught at it. He’s not a bad sort, J. P.”

“Isn’t it the very dickens!” muttered Jimmy, plunging his hands in
his pockets and viewing his chum forlornly. “Just when everything was
coming around our way, too!”

Dud shrugged philosophically. “I’ll get even with him some time, even
if I can’t fight him now,” he declared grimly. “Don’t you worry.”

“Yes, but that isn’t going to help us much now,” replied Jimmy
perplexedly. “You see, I insisted that you were crazy for a scrap and
Star will think――――”

“Oh, who cares what Star thinks? Who cares what anybody thinks?” asked
Dud impatiently. “I’m sick of the whole business.”