“D-did you see who that was?” he demanded. “It was Star Meyer! He
pushed me off the step! He――he kicked me off! I might have been killed!
You wait! You wait till I――――”

But Jimmy was fairly gibbering now. Dud handed his straw hat to him.
“Never mind about that now,” he said impatiently. “The question is how
we’re to get to Greenbank. How far is it?”

“I don’t know. You wait till I get my hands on that――that――――”

“Let’s find out,” interrupted Dud anxiously. “The game’s at two-thirty
and it must be half-past one now. Maybe there’s another train that will
get us there in time, Jimmy.”

Jimmy stopped his mouthings and hurried after Dud to the waiting-room,
unconscious of the curious regard of the small audience. The agent
was most unsympathetic. He had been chivied by the fellows and made
sport of and he seemed to think that it served these two young rascals
just about right. His replies to their anxious questions were short
and discouraging. No, there wasn’t another train to Greenbank before
two-forty-eight. No, he didn’t know how they were to get there by
half-past two. (His tone implied that he hoped they wouldn’t!) Yes,
they might be able to get a carriage to drive them over. There was a
livery stable about a mile down the road there. And the distance to
Greenbank by rail was nine miles.

They retired to consider. A mile walk to the livery stable didn’t
appeal to them and Dud suggested telephoning. Fortunately, there
was a booth in the corner of the waiting-room and Jimmy possessed a
nickel. They crowded in and at last, after much delay, got the stable.
But the voice at the other end was not at all reassuring. They had
carriages enough and horses enough, but just now there wasn’t anyone to
drive ’em. If they could wait until two o’clock maybe Billy would be
back from Chester. Jimmy impatiently suggested that they could drive
themselves and the stable could send a man over to Greenbank on the
train to bring the team back. But that didn’t appear feasible to the
man on the telephone. Mr. Libby, it appeared, had gone to the city.
(Mr. Libby, they gathered, was the proprietor.) If Mr. Libby was there
maybe he’d let ’em have a rig, but the speaker declined to shoulder the
responsibility. In short, the only course was to await the return of
Billy at two――or maybe half-past――or three, at the latest!

Jimmy hung up the receiver impatiently.

“I suppose there isn’t a trolley?” murmured Dud. They consulted the
agent once more. He showed peevishness at being required to awake
from his nap and open the window again and took evident pleasure in
informing them that the nearest trolley line was four miles distant and
that it didn’t go to Greenbank, anyway; leastways, not direct; it went
to West Shoreham first. The window descended with a venomous bang.

Dud and Jimmy, hands in pockets, wandered disconsolately back to the
platform. There was an unoccupied baggage truck there and they seated
themselves on it and swung their legs and stared forlornly at a field
of potatoes.

“I dunno,” murmured Jimmy hopelessly.

Dud consulted his watch. It was now one-forty-six. In three-quarters
of an hour the game would start. And they wouldn’t be there! Of course
it wasn’t very likely that he would have had a chance to pitch today,
anyhow, but there was always the possibility. Dud sighed deeply and
Jimmy echoed the sigh. It had just occurred to him that there was now
no question as to who would play center field.

“If I ever lay my hands on that skunk,” broke forth Jimmy, “I’ll――I’ll
just about――――”

But Dud interrupted by sliding off the truck and walking away down the
platform.

“Where are you going?” called Jimmy.

“I’m going to Greenbank,” answered Dud.

“How?”

“Walk!”

“Walk! Walk nine miles? Why it’ll take hours!”

“All right,” replied Dud over his shoulder. “Let it. But I’m going to
get there, just the same, Jimmy.”

“But――here, hold on!” Jimmy followed at a trot. “What’s the use, Dud?
We won’t get there until the game’s ’most over, and――――”

“Can’t help it. I started out to see that game and I’m going to!
Besides, a fellow might as well be walking as sitting around on that
platform. I can do nine miles in two hours, I guess.”