“You won’t have to pitch, though,” responded Jimmy consolingly. “Just
do the setting-up stuff. Come on and get your bath.”

“I don’t want any bath,” muttered Dud, still feeling of his pitching
arm with cautious fingers. “You go ahead.”

“Dud,” said the other severely, “you’ve got a grouch. You must have got
out of bed the wrong way.”

“I did, when you pulled me out,” was the pointed reply. “And who
wouldn’t have a grouch, I’d like to know? I’ll have a fat chance to do
any pitching, won’t I?”

“You can tell ’em you lamed yourself, can’t you? Cheer up, Dud, and
come ahead before the crowd gathers. I’ll rub it for you when we get
back.”

“Huh! I guess that’s what’s the matter with it now. You nearly killed
me last night with your old massaging, as you called it.”

“It may hurt a little,” said Jimmy earnestly, “but it’s awfully good
for you. It’s regular Swedish stuff, Dud. I learned it from a chap at
home who works in the gym. We ought to have some liniment, though. I
wonder if that liquid dentifrice stuff of yours would do.”

“I’ll do my own rubbing, thanks,” replied the other ungraciously. “If
it hadn’t been for you――――”

“Help!” wailed Jimmy, hurrying through the door. Then came the sound
of quick scurrying in the corridor, and Dud, still mooning on the
side of the bed, guessed that Jimmy and some other chap were racing
for a bathtub. Dud hoped the other fellow would win. He continued to
explore the lamed muscles of his arm for several minutes, finding a
grim satisfaction in the twinges of pain he evoked. Finally, however,
he slung the cords of his bath-robe together and dejectedly followed
the others down the corridor. As luck would have it, three other youths
were awaiting their turns at the tubs, while Starling Meyer reached the
washroom at the same moment Dud did. Star fixed a haughty and scornful
glare on the younger boy.

“I’m ahead of you,” he announced briefly.

Most any other time Dud would have acquiesced without a murmur, but
this morning his peevishness made him combative and courageous. “Like
fun you are,” he replied scowlingly.

A perceptible thrill went through the other members of the waiting
group. Dud Baker and Star Meyer were going to have a scrap! They had
heard of Dud’s fighting reputation, and now they were to witness an
example of that youth’s quality! They almost held their breaths in the
excitement, their round eyes traveling from Star to Dud and back again
expectantly. Star frowned portentously.

“We’ll see,” he remarked coldly.

“You bet we’ll see,” agreed Dud, a strange recklessness taking
possession of him. Somehow this morning Star didn’t look nearly so
formidable, perhaps because his eyes were still heavy with sleep or
because the flaming red bath-robe in which he was enveloped was so
palpable an affront to good taste. Star stared an instant in perplexed
surprise and then deliberately turned his gaze away from Dud’s
pugnacious countenance, indicating contempt and scorn and several
other things that riled Dud still further. From the cubicles holding
the tubs came the rush and splash of water and the voices of the
bathers. No healthy boy ever bathed silently, and the four in the tubs
were, judging from the sounds, remarkably robust! Jimmy was chanting
a football pæan at the top of his lungs, another boy was singing
something remarkably tuneless and repetitional and the other two were
exchanging badinage across the partition at the tops of their voices.

After a moment one of the doors opened, a very pink-hued youth emerged
and it was the turn of one of the interested trio. Oddly enough
the latter showed a strange disinclination to avail himself of his
prerogative. Instead he offered in a whisper to let one of the others
precede him. But the reply was a shake of the head, the boy not even
removing his fascinated gaze from Dud.

There was nothing for it but to go then, and the youth went,
disappearing behind the door most reluctantly. Star moved impatiently
from one foot to the other. “You fellows in there, get a move on,” he
advised loudly. “We’ve been waiting here ten minutes.”

“Keep on waiting, old chap,” replied Jimmy, interrupting his song.
“Don’t know who you are, but you’re an awful fibber. I say, Dud, are
you there?”

“Yes,” growled Dud.

“Hand me a piece of soap from the stand, will you?”