“Don’t ask him,” replied Jimmy. “He’d tell you anything. He’s incapable
of the truth. Say, what’s the matter with getting back, fellows?”

“Oh, there’s plenty of time,” said Nick. “Joking aside, Jimmy, just
what is the big idea?”

“Go ahead and tell,” urged Dud. “I don’t mind. Besides, they won’t
talk.”

“Oh, you!” said Jimmy in disgust. “What is there to tell? Well, all
right, fellows. Only this is just between us, understand? It’s a little
scheme of my own. You see, Dud here is――well, he’s just as you see
him now. He thinks big thoughts and he’s a nice boy, but he’s a graven
image when he gets outside his room. Well, he likes fun as much as the
rest of us but he doesn’t get it because he always thinks he isn’t
wanted around. He――he’s shy, you know. At least, I suppose that’s it. I
never was that way and don’t know much about it.”

Nick and Hugh laughed.

“So I said one day: ‘Dud,’ I said, ‘you do like I tell you and I’ll
have you mixing in no time at all. I’ll make a regular feller of you,
and it won’t cost you a cent. All you’ve got to do is what I tell you.’
So Dud said: ‘Oh, pshaw!’ or words to that effect, but agreed to try
the scheme. First thing I did was to make a list of fellows he ought
to know. Then we started in and got acquainted. It was hard sledding
because just as soon as I got him into a bunch of fellows he’d get
tongue-tied. Well, I saw that that wouldn’t do and so I began to get
off the good things Dud said――――”

“All of which you made up?” chuckled Nick.

“No, not all, honest. Some I did, of course. Dud didn’t deliver the
goods fast enough. And――well, that’s all there is to it. Perfectly
legitimate, you see, although Dud has had his doubts now and then and
threatened mutiny once or twice. We’ve got on fairly well. I haven’t
exactly popularized him yet, but I haven’t done so badly either. Lately
he’s been sort of kicking over the traces and refusing to pull, but
we’re progressing slowly. Now you know all about it. If either of you
chaps blab I’ll punch your head.”

“So that’s it,” mused Nick. “Some scheme, eh, ’Ighness?”

“Rather!”

“I’m glad you know,” said Dud, embarrassed, “because it’s always seemed
so silly for Jimmy to go around getting off a lot of funny jokes and
crediting them to me, and then――then for me to just stand around
and act like a dummy. I suppose we went into it as a sort of lark,
or――well, I don’t know. I suppose it sounds funny to you chaps. But I
wanted you to know.”

“I knew already,” said Hugh. “That is, I guessed a long time ago.”

“Honest?” exclaimed Jimmy. “Say, that’s queer, because when I asked Dud
which of the fellows he’d like to――――”

“Shut up, Jimmy!” implored Dud.

“Why? There’s no harm in it, you chump. I asked Dud who he’d like to
know most and he said――――”

“_Please_ dry up, Jimmy!”

“He said Hugh Ordway. That’s why we butted in on you one night a long
while ago.”

“Really? Well, you know, that’s quite a compliment, Baker. I’m afraid,
though, you didn’t find me――what’s the word, Nick?”

“Responsive?”

“Well, yes. Or appreciative, I guess; that’s better. If I’d known――――”

“You didn’t expect Baker to tell you, did you?” asked Nick. “If you
really wanted to know a fine, respectable member of the community,
though, Baker, why didn’t you select me? I can’t understand you wanting
to know this cold-blooded Britisher.”

“I think we called on you next,” answered Dud, laughing.

“Did you? Well, thanks for small favors! But look here, Jimmy, it’s
been fun for you, I guess, but you haven’t done Baker much good, you
idiot! A fellow’s got to work out his own――his own salvation at school.
No one else can do it for him. Now you let Baker hoe his own row,
and――――”

“That’s all you know about it,” replied Jimmy tranquilly. “Dud is on
speaking terms with about every fellow worth knowing now and before I
took him in hand――――”