VIII

A WILD PITCH


April at its best is an uncertain month, and April this spring lived
up to its reputation. No sooner had the baseball candidates grown
accustomed to the feel of soft and springy turf under their feet than a
three-days’ rain began and they were forced to retire again to the dim
and unsympathetic cage. The track and field candidates defied weather
conditions until the cinders held pools of water and the pits became
of the consistency of oatmeal porridge. Then the sun shone forth again
and, after another day of indoor confinement, the players once more
trailed down to Lothrop Field. The diamond was far from dry, but the
sun was warm and a little south-east breeze promised its best efforts.
Candidates for the second team were called out that afternoon, and
Jimmy, whose status with the first was still a matter for conjecture,
thought seriously of returning to the fold. Dud, however, refused to
sanction the step and so Jimmy grumblingly stayed where he was.

“I know just how it’ll be, though,” he said pessimistically. “They’ll
keep me here until Crowley’s got his second team all made up and then
they’ll drop me. Oh, all right!” He stretched his legs and leaned more
comfortably back against the railing of the stand. “After all, it’s too
nice a day to do anything. I pity those poor dubs out there catching
flies and wrenching their arms throwing the ball in. Me for the quiet,
untroubled life of a substitute outfielder. You’ll have to go in and
pitch pretty quick, Dud; Pete’s got his eye on you now; but I’ll just
sit here and keep this bench warm and――――”

Jimmy’s remarks were rudely interrupted.

“Hi, Logan!” called Mr. Sargent. “Go on out there to left and get your
hands on some of those flies. Lively, now! Send Boynton in.”

Jimmy arose with alacrity, casting a despairing glance at Dud, and
ambled off. Hugh Ordway, seated further along the bench, got up and
joined Dud.

“Awfully pretty, isn’t it?” observed Hugh, nodding toward the wide
expanse of new green that led away to the ribbon of river beyond.
“Reminds me a lot of home――I mean England.” It sounded as if he was
correcting himself, and Dud asked:

“But England is your home, isn’t it?”

Hugh nodded. “I suppose it is, only when I’m here I like to remember
that I’m part American, if you know what I mean.”

“Your mother is American, isn’t she?” asked Dud.

“Yes, she was born in Maryland. Her folks have lived there for a long
time. It’s a bit odd, Baker, but sometimes I feel as if I were more
U. S. A. than British. Being sort of half-and-half like that, a fellow
doesn’t quite know where he is, if you know what I mean!”

“I dare say,” murmured Dud. It was the first time that Hugh Ordway had
ever approached him, and he felt rather embarrassed. The desire to make
a good impression on the other only resulted in tying his tongue up.
But Hugh appeared not to notice the fact.

“How are you getting on,” he asked, “with your bowl――your pitching?”

“Just fair, I guess. How do you like it? Baseball, I mean.”

“Crazy about it! I’ll never learn to play decently, I fancy, but it’s
a jolly game, isn’t it? What I like best is batting, only I can’t seem
to hit the ball very well yet. Myatt fools me every time, you know. I
got a couple of good ones off Nate Leddy the other day, though. Are you
pitching today?”

“I guess Pete will put me in for an inning or two later. He’s giving us
all a chance now. I――I’m pretty rotten so far.”

“Haven’t found yourself yet, I fancy. It takes a bit of time, eh? Bert
says a lot of us will be dropped to the second pretty soon. I say,
Baker, I wasn’t thinking of you, you know!”

“Oh, I’ll get dropped, all right, I guess.”

“Hope not, I’m sure. In my own case I wouldn’t mind a bit. Maybe I
could play well enough to make the second. Or a class team perhaps.”

“I thought you――you fielded very well the other day,” said Dud politely.

Hugh laughed. “You’re spoofing, I fancy. I did catch a few, but I was
beastly scared of them. Bert says I looked as if I were going to catch
them in my mouth! Odd feeling you have when those balls begin to come
down, getting bigger and bigger every second, and you’re wondering
whether you’ll catch them or if they’ll hit you on the nose! Jolly good
fun, though! Corking! Lots more exciting than cricket.”