“I’ve always wondered,” mused Jimmy, “how it would feel to be on
probation.”

“You ought to know by this time,” chuckled Dud. “You’ve been there
twice already.” For some reason, Dud seemed less troubled by the
impending disaster than the others.

Jimmy sniffed. “I don’t know, Mr. Baker, where you get your information,
but you have been sadly misled. The other occasions to which you
doubtless allude――――”

“Shut up, Jimmy,” warned Nick. “And, say, we’d better part company
about now. You and Baker beat it up here and Hugh and I’ll amble
careless-like over to River Street. I hate to attract attention, I’m
that modest. Nighty-night!”

“Same to you,” replied Jimmy. “And thanks for a pleasant party.
Although I must say that your arrangements for getting us home were a
bit――ah――primitive!”

“Don’t mention it! Farewell, brothers. We meet in prison!”

Whether by design or accident, Mr. Russell’s study door was wide
open as Dud and Jimmy quietly slipped from the stairway well into
the first-floor corridor of Trow, and, although they didn’t think it
advisable to stop to pass the time of day with the instructor, they
stopped just the same.

“Ah, Logan, is that you?” It was “J. P.’s” voice. The two boys retraced
their steps and halted at the doorway.

“Yes, sir,” replied Jimmy brightly.

“And Baker, too, I see. Well, young gentlemen, where have you been? We
missed your bright and smiling faces at supper tonight.”

Mr. Russell seemed to be in a pleasant mood, though one couldn’t always
be certain from appearances, and so Jimmy, as spokesman, smiled his
most winning smile and answered truthfully: “In the mud, sir.”

“Indeed? Yes, I see. All the evidence tends to corroborate your quaint
statement. But why in the mud, Logan?”

Jimmy hesitated an instant and then decided to make a clean breast of
the matter. Mr. Russell heard him through, smiling pleasantly. And
when the tale was told he said: “A most interesting narrative, Logan,
on my word. You show a nice sense of dramatic construction. But really,
boys, I’m rather afraid trouble will come of this. You know there’s a
rule about being in bounds by six o’clock on Sundays, eh? By the way,
you brought your fellow miscreants back with you, I trust? I refer to
Ordway and Blake.”

“Yes, sir; they’re back,” replied Jimmy dispiritedly. Mr. Russell’s
tone now wasn’t so reassuring.

“And they, too, were――ah――in the mud?”

Jimmy grinned. “You’d think so if you saw them! They fell right in a
ditch once!”

“Really?” Mr. Russell smiled quite broadly. “Well, I suppose it’s all a
grand lark with you youngsters, eh? Dear, dear, what a thing it is to
be young! Get those wet things off, boys, and stay in your room for the
rest of the evening. Possibly――――” He caught himself up. Then: “We’ll
hope for the best. Hm! Better look to your ways for awhile, though,
both of you. How about that little matter we spoke of recently, Baker?
Any――ah――any developments?”

“No, sir. I――I quit.”

“Wise youth! Go your ways, young gentlemen. Ponder on your sins
and”――Mr. Russell took up his book again――“refresh your souls with the
sweet communion――――”

The rest was only a mumble. Dud and Jimmy stole noiselessly away.

Fortune was good to them on the morrow. They were assembled, a
sober quartette, in Dr. Duncan’s office after breakfast and gravely
reprimanded and told that only a diligent application to studies could
wipe out the stain of their guilt. Promises of unfaltering labor
being at once forthcoming from each, they were dismissed with a final
admonition to mend their ways and, they thought, a sigh of relief from
the principal, never at his best in the rôle of Stern Authority.

After a ten o’clock recitation, Nick and Jimmy hurried up the river
in Nick’s canoe and recovered the lost craft, Twining’s being found
lodged against the bridge timbers and Hugh’s a half-mile up the stream,
entangled in a sunken branch. That, to all appearances, ended the
affair, but in reality there was one important consequence that was
lost sight of, which was the acceptance of Dud into the circle in which
Nick Blake and Hugh Ordway revolved. It didn’t happen all at once, and
for a week or two Dud himself didn’t realize it, but at the end of that
period he suddenly discovered himself sitting with Hugh and Nick and
Bert Winslow and Ted Trafford in Nick’s room very gravely discussing
such important subjects as The Value of the Sacrifice Hit, Overhand
versus Underhand Pitching, When to Use the Pinch-Play and The Duties
of a Third-Baseman on a Bunt to His Territory with a Man on Second.
Perhaps Dud didn’t take a very large part in the discussion, but when
he had anything to say he found voice to say it, and a few remarks from
him on the subject of underhand pitching were well received. But the
main thing was that he was there, not on sufferance but, as it seemed,
quite naturally and as a matter of course. He surreptitiously pinched
himself, found he was actually awake and then, for a moment, was
visibly embarrassed.