XXIII

THE CACHE


JOHN was walking over the moorland. He had been walking for the last
hour and more. It was nearing five o’clock. He had made a great circle,
and was now somewhere near the place where he had first had sight of a
fair lady and her two attendant knights.

At the moment there was no human being in sight. He had the earth, it
would appear, entirely to himself. Only furze-chats and yellow-hammers
twittered in the gorse around him; little blue butterflies and brown
underwings flitted over the heather. To the right it lay one great
purple sheet, broken only by the gorse bushes. Their golden glory of
April had long since passed away, but yellow flowers still lingered
among their prickly shields. You know the old adage:

“When the gorse is out of bloom.
Kissing is out of fashion.”

To the left lay a stretch of long brown grass, dry and coarse. The
wind, rustling softly through it, whispered of summer secrets. It came
blowing softly, faintly, from the distant blue sea. Truly it was a day
for whole-hearted enjoyment, for content, for reposefulness, for each
thing and everything that goes to sum up entire happiness.

But if you imagine John to be in this restful mood, you are vastly
mistaken. Three thoughts repeated themselves with about equal
recurrence in his mind. The first was merely a name--Rosamund.

The birds twittered it, the wind whispered it, the faint understirrings
in the heather took it up and repeated it with tantalizing insistence.

Rosamund, Rosamund, Rosamund.

A fair name truly; a poetical name. John, at the moment, might have
emulated Orlando, who hung a very similar name on every tree. Only here
there were no trees at hand, merely gorse bushes, and purple heather.

The second thought was a quotation. It ran through his head again and
again.

“Never the time, and the place, and the loved one altogether.”

“He knew what he was talking about,” sighed John. “Unquestionably, at
the moment, it would seem the veritable time and place,--the sunniest
most desirable time, the sweetest-scented most gorgeous place. But she
isn’t here. And, if she were, I’d bet anything the time and place would
seem all wrong. The time would jump to about a million of years ahead,
and as far the place----”

To tell the truth he hadn’t much idea as to what would happen to
the place. His thoughts were hardly what might be termed precisely
coherent, but perhaps you can arrive at some kind of a guess at them.

The third thought was neither fair, nor poetical. It was summed up in
the one short, pithy phrase,

“Drat the man!”

By which token it will be seen that John had not yet recovered from his
Monday’s mood.

Now, I don’t intend to attempt any detailed explanation as to why both
John and Father Maloney had found themselves in this curious state of
unwilling perturbation after one meeting with David Delancey, but it is
very certain that the perturbation had not only arrived, but remained.
Of course you will say sagely that it was the man’s personality,
and equally of course you will be right. But what was there in
his personality to cause this perturbation in two such entirely
dissimilar minds? There’s the question! And I, for my part, can find
no satisfactory verbal explanation of it. It is one thing to have the
explanation in one’s mind, knowing the man; it is quite another to set
it forth coherently in words. Therefore I will content myself with your
sage remark that it was his personality.

“Drat him!” said John again.

And then he stopped short, looking towards the heather to his right

His attention had been attracted by a curious little mound of stones.
Now it is not in the least unusual to see stones lying on a moorland
among the heather. But to John’s eye there _was_ something unusual
about these stones. They had unquestionably been placed there by human
agency; they were not the haphazard arrangement of mere chance.

John went across the heather towards them. They were built up in a
small rough circle; a large flat stone formed a kind of roof or lid to
them. John bent towards the mound.