“Well,” he demanded, “what does it all mean?”

For a moment Elizabeth was silent.

“Can’t you tell me a little more?” she suggested. “Haven’t you the
smallest idea what this other quest is?”

David hesitated.

“Not an atom clearly,” he said slowly, “at least--” he stopped.

Again there was a silence. There was no sound but the rippling of the
water, and the humming of insects. Occasionally a dragon-fly darted
across the surface of the stream with a flash of silver wings. Beyond
the grassy slope of the fields opposite them stood the trees of the
wood, dark green, deep shadows lying beneath them.

And in the silence Elizabeth waited.

Presently David began to speak, shyly, difficultly.

“When I was a very little chap, I used to read Tennyson. Do you know
the bit,

“‘... I heard a sound
As of a silver horn from o’er the hills...’?”

Elizabeth nodded.

“‘... O never harp nor horn,
Nor aught we blow with breath, or touch with hand.
Was like that music as it came; and then
Stream’d through my cell a cold and silver beam,
And down the long beam stole the Holy Grail,
Rose-red with beatings in it, as if alive,
Till all the white walls of my cell were dyed
With rosy colours leaping on the wall...’”

Her words fell softly into the silence.

“That’s it,” said David, his cheeks flushing. “I used to care for that
a lot,” he went on slowly. “I used to play I was one of those knights
going in search. But it’s years since I’ve thought of the poem, or had
any of those fancies. Perhaps working around knocks them out of one’s
head. Now, what I am going to say will sound pure nonsense. One day,
here, in a wood, the whole thing came back to me.”

“Yes?” said Elizabeth gently.

“I came up through the wood to the edge of the park,” said David, “and
I found myself by the Castle Chapel. A bell rang. I can’t in the least
explain what happened then, but I might have been a little chap again,
fancying myself near the end of my quest, only it was about a thousand
times more real. Well, it’s just that. What I played at as a little
fellow has got hold of me again.” He stopped.

“Yes,” said Elizabeth again, and very softly.

“I’ve tried to tell myself it’s nonsense,” went on David, “but it’s no
good. And it doesn’t seem like play now. I can’t explain. Of course
reason tells me I’m being a bit mad, but the thought has got hold of
me and won’t let me go. Mr. Elmore talked to me yesterday, down on the
beach. He talked what seemed to me a good deal of rubbish, though I’ll
grant it sounded all right in one way. I told him what I thought about
it. But what we both said is beside the matter. It’s just that all the
time this idea was gripping me tighter and tighter. It was as if the
quest was real. Everything--the sea, the rocks, the birds, the sun, the
wind--was telling me so. I wanted to speak to someone about it. Somehow
I felt I could tell you. It seems so real, and yet-- What do you make
of a fantastic idea like that?” There was almost a wistful note in his
voice.

Elizabeth’s eyes were shining. Perhaps there was the faintest hint of
tears in them.

“I don’t think it is fantastic,” she said quietly. “I--I know it isn’t.”

“You know it is real?” asked David wonderingly.

“I know it is real,” she said. “There are others who could tell you
probably a great deal better than I can; yet you’ve asked me, so I will
do my best. The story of King Arthur and his knights seeking the Holy
Grail, is a beautiful story, a wonderful story. It was a marvellous
quest. It was the quest far the holiest purely material thing that
ever existed. And yet there is Something more wonderful even than it,
Something always present upon the earth which may be found by all who
seek It. I think you have been given a glimpse of that Quest.”

David looked at her silently.