John’s mind swung instantly to his own sensation of less than twenty
minutes ago.

“No,” he said quietly. “It doesn’t sound at all absurd.”

She looked at him quickly.

“You speak almost as if you thought--” She broke off. After all it was
an absurd imagination.

“I have thought the same,” said John smiling.

“You!” She was amazed.

“Yes; as I came across the park just now.”

“Oh!”

Again there was a little silence.

“I wonder--” she said musingly. “Do you think there’s the faintest
possible chance?”

“There’s always the faintest possible chance,” John assured her. “Oh,
I’ll grant it’s the faintest possible, and heaven alone knows where it
will spring from. But it’s there, I know it’s there. And we’ve both
felt it.”

She nodded.

“I’m glad you’ve felt it too. It adds a little bit more hope, even
while I’m almost laughing at myself. Only--what is it we’ve both felt?”

“I don’t know,” said John. “I don’t know an atom. I think I get nearest
the mark when I say that it seems as if, somewhere, there’s a dumb
voice striving for expression. At least that is the only way I can
describe the sensation to myself.”

“And all the time,” she added, “there’s a feeling of quietness in
the atmosphere, the quietness that precedes something very important
happening.”

“I know,” said John.

“Ah, it’s tantalizing,” she sighed, “the inward knowledge of that, and
yet the knowledge of one’s own impotence.”

Her brow was wrinkled in a little frown, half of annoyance, half of
something like regretful amusement. It was an adorable little frown,
and John longed, ardently longed, to smooth it away. His heart beat and
thumped, the while it cried warningly that the time was not yet. And
from somewhere near at hand came the liquid note of a pigeon.

“Go slow slowly, go slow slowly,” it seemed to remind him.

“Oh, yes, we’re impotent enough,” assented John, and a trifle gloomily.

“Isn’t it all melodramatic?” she laughed.

“Horribly,” agreed John.

“It’s an extraordinary conglomeration,” she pursued. “Setting,
old-world; drama, early Victorian; period, twentieth century. Do you
suppose that any one who didn’t _know_ about it, would believe it?”

“Not an atom,” John assured her promptly. “If any one, I for instance,
were to write a novel dealing with it, I’ll be bound I’d be considered
to have strained the long arm of coincidence to breaking point. That’s
the queer thing about truth. It’s always a thousand times, a million
times, queerer than fiction.”

“It’s from precisely that--the very queerness of it,--that I can
derive some small modicum of consolation,” she assured him gravely.
“I feel, on occasions, that I am not myself at all, but merely a
heroine in a book. Only, if I were, I might be tolerably certain of a
happy-ever-after ending. I might say indisputably certain, considering
the style of the plot. Here it is nothing but a toss-up.”

“Oh, no.” John shook his head. “I wouldn’t give mere chance quite such
a free hand.”

“You mean that there’s a real plan behind it all?” she demanded point
blank.

“Oh, well!” said John. There was a slightly quizzical smile in his eyes.

“Of course I know there is truly,” responded she, smiling in her turn.
“But----”

“But me no buts,” retorted John. “Chance isn’t a free agent, and you
know it; though I’ll allow he has an extraordinary appearance of acting
on his own account now and again. But that’s merely his guise. If he
didn’t appear clad in that fashion, we’d misname him; and I’ve an
idea he’s curiously tenacious of his personality. People, you know,”
continued John slyly, “are apt to believe in his omnipotence.”