XV

JOHN PLAYS THE SAMARITAN


THERE is no question but that Mrs. Trimwell could rise to an emergency
when it presented itself before her. In fifteen, perhaps no more than
ten, minutes from their entry, she had the drenched couple into dry
garments; the injured ankle was bound in soft bandages, tea was in
preparation.

But why, marvelled John, should her beneficent services have been
dispensed with a face as sour as a crab-apple? Why should her whole
mien have been as stiff, unbending, and unyielding as the proverbial
poker? The disapproval of her attitude was so marked as to be
impossible to ignore. John, in the position of host, felt some sort of
an apology necessary. Mrs. Trimwell departed, he stumbled one forth,
wondering, as he endeavoured at lightness, whether he were not, after
all, a bit of a fool for his pains; whether, by remarking on her
taciturn grimness, he were not emphasizing it more crudely.

“She doesn’t mean to be abrupt,” he concluded, holding his cigarette
case towards the stranger.

The man took a cigarette, and glanced at John.

“Oh, yes, I guess she does,” he remarked drily.

John looked at him. Obtuseness still had him in her clutch.

“She knows who I am,” said the man coolly, “and--well, I fancy most
folk round here are not predisposed in my favour. My name, by the way,
is David Delancey.”

John gasped, frankly gasped. He was amazed, dumbfounded. Running
through the amazement was, I fancy, something like annoyance; though
superseding it was a sense of the ludicrous, a realization of the
absurdity of the situation. And this brought him to something
perilously near a titter.

The man looked at him.

“Look here,” he said deliberately, though with a gleam of amusement in
his own eyes, “if you feel the same way about things, I’ll move on now.
I’ll make shift to hobble to the inn if you’ll lend me a couple of
sticks.”

John experienced a sudden sensation of shame. Perhaps it was by reason
of the quick interpretation of his unspoken thoughts, perhaps it was
something in the other’s steady grey eyes.

“You’ll do nothing of the kind,” he said quickly. And then he laughed.

“What’s funny?” demanded David.

“Oh, the whole blessed kaboodle,” returned John, still laughing softly.
“Here was I half an hour agone inveighing against you for all I was
worth, and now--well, the rôle of good Samaritan strikes me as a bit
humorous, that’s all.”

He held a lighted match towards his guest. David took it. After a
moment he spoke.

“Then you know them up at the Castle?”

“I do,” said John.

David glanced at him, then turned to a contemplation of his cigarette.

“I had a note from the old lady today,” he said ruminatively. “She has
asked me to dine on Thursday. Now, I call that sporting of her. I guess
I’d be more like sticking a knife into me than asking me to share her
salt. It’s the way she’s worded the note, too, that I’m stuck on. I’d
give a good many dollars to get my tongue and pen around words in that
fashion. I reckon I shall shake hands with her cordially.”

John eyed him curiously. His preconceived notions of hostility were
undergoing an extraordinary change, a change at once rapid, and, to
him, amazing, incomprehensible. I fancy he tried to rein them back,
to bring them to a standstill, while he took a calmer survey of the
situation, but, for all his endeavours, he found they had suddenly got
beyond his control.

“I wonder,” hazarded he, “if you’d mind my asking you something. What
gave you the first clue--the idea of starting out on this quest of
yours?”

“The clue?” David laughed. “It’s a bit of a yarn, I can tell you. You
want it? Sure?”