XXIX

AN UNEXPECTED LETTER


JOHN sat down to breakfast at about nine o’clock, or thereabouts, the
following Wednesday morning. It was the Feast of Our Lady’s Assumption;
he had been to Mass at Delancey Chapel.

A letter was lying in his place. He took it up, and opened it. Here are
its contents.

“DEAR JOHN,--Unexpected business has brought me over to London. It
seems a thousand pities to go back to Ireland without seeing you.
Could you get rooms for me at your sequestered spot for ten days or
so? Send me an early wire if possible, and I’ll come down by the train
arriving tomorrow evening.

“Your affectionate sister,
ELIZABETH DARCY.”

Now, it is very certain that, from the time of our Mother Eve, women
have played an important part in the affairs of mankind, either for
good or ill. But it is equally certain that John had not the faintest
conception of the part Elizabeth would play in the life of at least one
person by this her proposed visit.

“Elizabeth suggests coming down for a few days,” said John tentatively,
and helping himself to bacon.

“Elizabeth?” echoed Corin, gazing enquiringly at John.

“My sister, Mrs. Darcy. I forgot you didn’t know her.”

“By all means advocate her coming,” quoth Corin. “I shall be delighted
to make her acquaintance.”

“I wonder--” began John, and stopped.

“Well?” queried Corin.

“I wonder whether Mrs. Trimwell has another room. Elizabeth suggests
that I should take rooms for her. She wants an early reply.”

“Then my suggestion,” remarked Corin calmly, “is that you ask Mrs.
Trimwell. On the whole it would be simpler and more practical than
merely wondering.”

“Brilliant man!” responded John genially. And he rang the bell.

Mrs. Trimwell, it appeared, had not. She was profuse in her apologies
for the lack of accommodation. You would have imagined that she was
entirely to blame for the fact that the White Cottage possessed merely
three bedrooms and a cupboard, so to speak. Tilda and Benny--aged
four--slept in the cupboard.

“But there’s the Green Man what isn’t seven minutes’ walk from here,
and though I’ll not vouch for the cooking myself, a bit of bacon and a
cup of coffee for breakfast is what any idiot might rise to, it being
pleasanter for the lady not to be afoot too early, and the beds I
believe is clean, while for other meals she’ll natural take them along
of you.”

Of course Chance--so-called--had a hand in the arrangement. If
Elizabeth had both slept and breakfasted at the White Cottage, I’ll
vouch for it that matters would not have happened precisely as they
did; indeed, they would probably have been totally different.

John finished his breakfast, and then took a telegram to the
post-office.

He was genuinely, undeniably pleased that Elizabeth was coming. He had
a sensation of something like exultation in the thought. She was so
extraordinarily reliable. Never under any circumstances did Elizabeth
“let you down,” to use a slang phrase. There was never the smallest
occasion to remind Elizabeth that the intimate remarks you made to her
were confidences. It was a foregone conclusion in her eyes. She would
no more dream of repeating them than she would dream of tampering with
another person’s letters. Also, so reflected John, she never reminded
you that you had made them, unless it was entirely obvious that you
desired to be so reminded. She never glossed over any difficulty, but
faced it squarely with you. The only people who were ever disappointed
in Elizabeth were those who looked for a maudlin sympathy from her, who
desired her to fight their battles, when she was fully aware that they
alone could fight them. Yet Elizabeth was entirely feminine, from the
top of her glossy brown hair, to the tip of her dainty shoes. John,
perhaps more than any one else in the world, understood and appreciated
both her strength and her femininity. It was therefore with a feeling
of intense satisfaction that he dispatched his telegram.