John nodded.

“Well,” quoth David, “you can call it luck, chance if you like. We’ve
always known we hailed as a family originally from England. That
knowledge has been handed down to us as a bit of tradition. I was born
in Philadelphia, and riz there, as they say in the States, till I was
going ten. Then my father made for Africa. There’s no need to enter
into the details of that move; they’re beside the mark. He took a small
farm in the Hex River Valley. He had a few old things that belonged
to his father and grandfather before him. They were stored away in a
chest. I used to look inside it when I was a youngster, and see coats,
and waistcoats, and neck stocks, and a fusty old book or two lying in
it. I never smell camphor without thinking of that chest.

“As I grew older, I left it alone, didn’t think about it. I guess my
father hadn’t bothered about it much more than I did. He died when I
was fifteen, and my mother ran the farm. She was a capable woman. I
helped her all I could, and there were men to do the work. But she
was boss till I was one and twenty. Then she turned it over to me to
run,--root, stock, and barrel. She was cute, though, the way she’d talk
things over with me, telling me all the time what was best to do, and
making me think that I had figured out the plans. Later on she left it
really to me, not just in the name of it. That was when I’d got the
right hang of things.

“Then she dropped suddenly out of all the man way of thinking, and just
sat knitting and smiling in the chimney corner, or letting me drive her
around in the buggy, with never a talk of business unless I began the
subject. It’s seven years ago that she died.” He stopped.

John was silent.

“I missed her,” went on David presently, “I missed her badly. The
place wasn’t the same. I went roving around trying to think she wasn’t
gone--but I’ll get maudlin if I go on with that. It wasn’t the bit I
set out to tell you, anyway. One afternoon I was in the lumber room
feeling lonesomer than ever. I don’t know what took me there if it
wasn’t just fate. Then I looked at that chest again. I opened it, and
the smell of camphor rushed out at me, making me think more than ever
of my mother. She was mad after camphor, putting it among everything to
keep away the moth.

“To get away from my thoughts I began pulling out the things in the
box, stuffy books, coats, waistcoats, and all. There was one coat,
a snuff-coloured one, that might have been worn in the time of the
Georges, I calculated. I sat looking at it, and wondering which of my
grandparents had worn it, and what kind of a man he was, and all the
things a fellow does think when he’s got his grandsire’s stuff before
him. After a bit I began going through the pockets. I found a tiny horn
snuff-box in one, and that set me off searching closer. I’d come to the
last pocket, when I found what gave me that clue you were asking about.
I found a letter.”

John looked up quickly.

“It was torn, and not over-easy to read,” went on David. “I’ve got it
here. You can read it if you like.”

He felt in his waistcoat pocket and pulled out his pocket-book. From it
he took a letter.

John took the yellow paper with its faded ink lines. As he touched it
he thought of the queer twists fate gives to the wheel of our life.
Less than a fortnight ago he had set eyes but momentarily upon one of
the Delancey family, and now here he was, thrown into their midst, made
participator even in their extraordinary history. It was, so mused
John, a bit of a marvel.

Here is the letter he read.

“MY DEAR SON RICHARD:

“I am about to set forth on the journey of which you know the purpose.
If I am successful you will claim your birthright. Though I sold mine,
after the manner of Esau, for a mess of red pottage, being forced
thereto by harshness, yet I forfeited it for myself alone.

“Your mother and brother do not know of the purpose of my journey to
England. I think it well that it should remain known to us two alone
till my return.

“Your affectionate father,
“HENRY DELANCEY.”

John slowly deciphered the faint lines. Silently he tendered the letter
again.

“It set me thinking,” said David reminiscently. “I was in that lumber
room for more than two hours reading that letter again and again. It
was clear that there was something belonging to us that we hadn’t got;
something that, as far as I could see, we had the right to have, though
I didn’t just know what it was. It struck me as queer that the Richard
who had had the letter hadn’t had a try for it. I know now that he died
of some kind of fever after his father had been gone six weeks. His
father didn’t return.” David’s voice was grim.