VI

MRS. TRIMWELL


MRS. TRIMWELL, brisk, black eyed, white-aproned, entered with a covered
dish.

Corin, deep in an armchair, was smoking a cigarette.

“I wonder,” said he meditative, between the inhalations of smoke, “what
the old painter of the church down yonder thinks of our proceedings.
It would be interesting to hear his own reflections on the subject.
Presumably he does reflect. If his spirit haunts the church, possibly
some fine evening I shall see him. Then I shall put a question or two.”

John merely laughed, and approached the table. Mrs. Trimwell, raising
a dish-cover, disclosed two golden-brown soles, perfect samples of her
culinary art.

“I have never,” continued Corin, still reflective, “seen a spirit, but
I firmly believe that one might be seen under favourable conditions.”

“Come and eat,” laughed John.

Mrs. Trimwell eyed Corin for a moment in hesitating fashion. Then she
spoke with the air of one embarking on a weighty question, though
addressing herself to John.

“There’s never no knowing, sir, what it mightn’t be given you nor any
one to see. I seed an angel myself once.”

Corin paused in the act of handing John a plate on which reposed one of
the soles.

“An angel!” he ejaculated.

John took the plate.

“An angel!” he echoed dubious.

“I seed it,” reiterated Mrs. Trimwell, “as plain as I see you. I was
doing my bit of ironing, the baby--that’s the youngest, sir--asleep in
the cradle under the table, so as I could give the rocker a jog with my
foot now and again, and the angel comed in.”

She paused, watching the effect of her words.

“But how?” queried John busy with the sole. “Through the window, the
ceiling, or the floor? Angels, you know, are spirits, not corporeal
weighty humans like ourselves. They’d never,” concluded John gravely,
“make an ordinary, an expected entrance.”

Corin glanced at him sternly.

“I should have imagined you would have held the matter too sacred for
joking about,” he remarked.

John smiled gently.

“This one,” said Mrs. Trimwell firmly, “came through the door. I heard
the outer door click, and said I to myself, ‘That’s Robert for sure.’
I thought he’d come home a bit earlier. Then the kitchen door clicked.
It opened just a little ways, and the beautifullest angel you ever seed
comed in all floaty-like. I was that scared I dropped my iron--there’s
the heat mark on the baby’s robe to this day--and I made a clean bolt
for the back door. I never thought of the baby nor nothing. And as I
bolted I squinnied over my shoulder, and I seed that angel by the table
all white and shiny.”

Again she stopped, and regarded John, who was eating steadily. To
Corin, who was all agog for a continuance of the story, she perversely
paid no heed.

“But--” began John dubious.

“You may doubt me as much as you like, sir. I wasn’t going back to that
kitchen without a neighbour. I told Vicar myself, sir, and he didn’t
believe me neither, though I’m a truthful woman. For as I says to my
children: ‘You tell the truth at all costs. If you’re in a hole don’t
tell a lie to try and get out of it. Truth will always give you the
surest hand up even though her clutch is a bit severe.’ I’d not deceive
you, sir, and ’tis the truth I’ve spoken as I spoke it to Vicar. I seed
that angel.”

Finality in her tone she stood there, slightly challenging, yet
respectful withal.

“Hmm!” mused John. “Your integrity, Mrs. Trimwell, is, I am convinced,
above suspicion. Yet why, do you imagine, should the angel come? What,
do you take it, was the motive for his visit?”