David gazed at her.

“I never thought of those letters,” he said slowly.

“Never thought of them!” cried Elizabeth. “Why they were the crux of
the whole business, the only standpoint the present owners had to work
from.”

“Oh, I see that now you’ve said it,” replied David. “But, honest injun,
I’ve only just seen it clearly. Perhaps you will hardly believe me, but
it’s true. I left the details of the affair to the solicitors. I began
to get a bit sick of the job after I’d got hold of the clues. I gave
them all I’d collected, and told them to bring the matter through. I
knew of the letters, of course, but somehow never thought of the point
of view you’ve put forward. It seems incredible, but I didn’t.”

“I can quite believe that,” said Elizabeth thoughtfully.

Oh, she understood fast enough. She could understand the nature that
went hot-foot to the vital issue, disregarding side lights on it, not
from callousness, but merely because they sank into insignificance
before the one big thought.

“Well?” demanded David.

“Oh,” smiled Elizabeth, “are you asking me to be judge? Well, at all
events, you must be jury. If I sum up, you’ve got to weigh the case and
give the casting vote, remember.”

She stopped, collecting her thoughts.

“Well,” she said after a minute, “you’ll allow that now you are seeing
matters from a different standpoint. You could--at least you think you
could--say to this imaginary son of yours: ‘My dear boy, legally I had
the possession in my hands. Morally there was sufficient ground for
me to give it up if I chose.’ You see I am not driving home the moral
necessity of renouncement. I am leaving a choice.”

“I see,” smiled David.

“Well,” pursued Elizabeth, “given the freedom in that choice, we find
the matter a trifle less complicated. Let’s deal first with the purely
sensible side. Could you get used to the restrictions you fancy the
possession would entail? Is the possession worth it?”

“In a measure it is,” said David, answering the last question first.
“It isn’t the title, or the place for the grandeur of the thing. It’s
the linking up with the past. _That_ holds me,--the oldness of it. I
suppose, too, I _could_ get used to the restrictions in time.”

“Well,” said Elizabeth slowly, “now we come to the more subtle aspect
of affairs. You’ve an idea that the possession may hinder you in your
quest. You must grant the quest real. I _know_ it is. Now, I can’t see
the smallest reason why it should prevent you actually finding what you
seek. It couldn’t. But I fancy,” went on Elizabeth thoughtfully, “that
there may be two reasons for that idea of yours. The first, and most
obvious, seems that there is probably a bigger moral obligation to give
up the possession than appears on the surface of things, in fact that
the possession _isn’t_ yours, and that this queer idea is a sort of
inner voice telling you so. The other reason--well, that’s only an idea
of mine. You can leave it at the first reason.”

“Why don’t you tell me the second reason?” demanded David.

“Because it isn’t a reason,” said Elizabeth. “At least it isn’t
properly one. It’s an idea. And--well, anyhow I couldn’t exactly
explain it to you.”

“All right,” laughed David. “Well then, it comes to this,--legally
the thing is mine. Morally even, I’m not _bound_ to give it up--we’ve
allowed that, remember,--but weighing against it is a quite absurd
feeling that I’d better give it up. I’m putting aside mere material
inclinations. That sums up the case, doesn’t it?”

“It does,” said Elizabeth.

David knocked the ashes from his pipe.

“What would you do?” he asked.

“No,” protested Elizabeth, “that isn’t fair. You’re trying to shift the
rôles. Your summing up is merely a repetition of mine. I refuse to act
as jury, and pronounce the verdict.”

“The jury always talk the matter over,” said David aggrievedly.
“There’s never a jury of one man.”

Elizabeth sighed.

“Oh, well,” she said resignedly.