XXVIII

ON THE TERRACE


SHE came to him in the hall.

Underneath her cordial ease of manner was the tiniest hint of shyness,
a sort of half-forgotten breath of extreme youngness, I might almost
say of childishness. Yet, very assuredly, there was nothing _gauche_
about the reception. The hint merely served to emphasize her youth.
If John thought about her age at all, he probably placed her at about
twenty-two or thereabouts, which, I take it, was pretty near the mark.
But I don’t fancy the thought entered his mind. It was enough for him
that there she was, sitting opposite to him in the dusky hall. A ray of
sunlight, falling through an open window, caught the burnished copper
of her hair, turning it to vivid flame. It looked a thing alive and
palpitating, a burning aureole around her face.

And now that the eighth meeting was accomplished, John found
himself suddenly tongue-tied, at a loss for any of those suitable
little phrases fitting to the occasion. Nothing is so infectious as
embarrassment, however slight, more particularly if there be any degree
of sympathy between the two. Certainly it proved infectious in this
case. Words halted, phrases came disjointedly, disconnectedly.

John cursed himself inwardly for a fool, a procedure which, you may
rightly guess, did not vastly aid matters. And then, suddenly, Rosamund
got up from her chair.

“Won’t you come and see the garden,” she suggested.

It was an inspiration. John followed her with alacrity.

They came out on to a wide terrace. A stone balustrade ran its full
length, a balustrade covered with climbing roses,--crimson, pink,
white, yellow, and a pale purple-lavender. A queer rose this last,
reminding one of the print gowns worn by one’s grandmothers. Beyond the
balustrade was a sunk lawn, and beyond that again the parkland, while
further still was the shimmering blue of the distant sea.

“How you must love it!”

The words escaped almost involuntarily from John’s lips. The next
moment he would have recalled them. To remind her of the beauty of what
she was about to lose, must surely be to emphasize the sense of that
loss.

“Love it!” She turned towards him with a little laugh. “It--it just
belongs.”

John was silent. Rosamund leaned upon the balustrade, half-sitting,
half-standing.

“You needn’t mind saying what is in your thoughts,” said she. And there
was a little whimsical smile in her eyes. “Of course you can’t help
thinking about the fact that we are going to lose it all, any more
than I can help thinking about it. It makes freedom of speech just a
trifle difficult, if all the time you are feeling it is a subject to be
carefully avoided. Granny and I speak of it quite naturally now.”

“I’d like to tell you how sorry I am,” said John.

“Thank you,” she said simply.

There was a little pause. She gazed out towards the sea. To the right,
a headland jutted out into its blueness. Sea-gulls circled in the quiet
air, tiny specks in the distance. Boats, white and red sailed, made
lazy way with the tide.

Suddenly she turned impulsively towards him.

“I fancy,” said she, “that I’m going to tell you something.”

“Do!” said he, his eyes upon her.

“You’ll laugh.”

“Not a smile even.”

“Hmm!” she debated. “An over-dose of seriousness _might_ be even worse
to face than laughter.”

“This is not fair,” protested John. “I can’t measure a smile to the
hundredth part of an inch. I can, at least, promise not to mock at you.
Won’t that do?”

She laughed.

“Yes; I believe it will. Well, it’s this.” Her voice dropped to
seriousness. “I have a quite unreasoning feeling that we shan’t leave
here after all. I can’t explain the feeling, and I am fully aware of
the almost absurdity of it. I haven’t spoken of it to any one else. I
can’t tell my grandmother, or Father Maloney. It might raise a faint
hope which reason tells me will be doomed to disappointment. And
yet--well, it seems almost that if one could only stretch out one’s
hand a little way, through a kind of fog, one would find the key to the
whole riddle. It must sound absurd to you, of course.”