When Corin had returned to his work, John had again betaken himself to
the open.

It was fairly obvious, so concluded John shrewdly, that a route
chosen for a morning ramble was not likely to be again sought in the
afternoon. The proceeding would savour too strongly of unoriginality of
ideas. But, so he pondered within his mind, it was just possible that
some other route might be chosen, and that by the favour of the gods he
might hit upon it. Therefore he had set out, leaving matters to those
same gods.

Having, after circumlocutious and disappointed walking, gained
his present post of eminence, he had lain down in the shadow of a
blackberry bush to muse over, and carp at, the fickleness of the gods
to whom he had trusted, and incidentally to survey the surrounding
country for a moving white-robed figure.

Till this present, no figure of any kind had come within his range of
vision; then, five minutes or so agone, turning his eyes leftwards, he
had perceived a stout elderly priest climbing the hillside towards him.

Here was some solace. If it were not the rose herself, it was at
least one who, it might pretty safely be concluded, was tolerably
well acquainted with the rose. A small backwater of a place, such as
Malford, does not, he might suppose, yield many priests, nor even,
presumably, more than one. There was little doubt in his mind but that
the approaching figure was the priest who officiated at Delancey Chapel.

John observed him intently, as I have said. He saw him lower himself on
to the grass with the slow deliberate movement of a stoutish man, saw
him gazing straight in front of him. From his position John had a view
of his face in something less than profile, but it was the dejection of
his attitude, rather than his face, that at the moment impressed our
John. He watched him, intent, absorbed.

“Something,” observed John mentally, “has recently upset his
equilibrium. Like a wise man he has come into the open to gain
restoration of balance.”

Which mental observation showed John to be possessed of no little
shrewdness, as you will perceive. And then, by a really marvellous leap
of intuition, he bounced straight into the heart of affairs, went in
with a splash, and came up gasping.

“Oh!” cried John to his soul, “that rumour, that obnoxious and
detestable rumour is true, and he has just been made aware of the
unassailable fact. The poor old fellow!”

No wonder he looked dejected, no wonder he gazed with all his eyes in
the direction of the towers of Delancey Castle plainly visible above
the distant trees. If the rumour were true, and John was now very
certain of its truth, it was enough to wring tears from the heart of a
flint, to call forth protestation from the tongueless trees and mute
stones of the old Castle itself.

An American claimant to that place! that utterly and entirely English
place! Its very walls, its surrounding trees and fields, were so
unmistakably and undeniably English. You might have taken up the whole
thing and planted it down in any remote and unexpected quarter of the
globe that you had chosen, and its whole atmosphere would have shrieked
its English origin dumbly, but quite, quite explicitly, at you. At any
time its origin would have been unassailable, and truly fifty times
more so at this present moment, as it lay serene and peaceful in the
blue and golden warmth of an August afternoon.

And now it was to be claimed by an American.

John suffered from no racial prejudice, I would have you to believe;
but there were some things that could be, and some things that could
not be. And for Delancey Castle to be in any but English hands would
be, to his way of thinking, a thing as incongruous and impossible as
that a Chinese should don the kilt of the Highlander, or that a South
Sea Islander should assume the Irish brogue. Oh, it was preposterous,
preposterous, preposterous. It was altogether unthinkable and
unimaginable.

And then suddenly he was aware of a difference in the old priest’s
attitude. It was a tiny difference, a subtle and quite inexplicable
difference, nevertheless it existed. And all at once John felt himself
a bit of an intruder, looking at what he had no atom of right to see.
Had he not feared that movement would make his presence known, he would
have moved on the instant. As it was he became absorbed in pulling up
small blades of grass from the ground. He pulled at them fiercely, his
eyes fixed upon them, the while he was most intensely aware of that
motionless old figure a hundred paces from him.

At length a sound--it might have been a half cough--caused him to raise
his eyes again. He saw the old priest pulling a pipe and tobacco pouch
from his pocket.