I

THE ROAD TO EAGLES


Two boys loped along the winding, dusty road on the way to Eagles.
One of them, astride a white-faced mustang, was leading a third
horse, a bay, which, though riderless, was saddled and bridled. The
day was hot; the road steep and tortuous; and the riderless horse,
with head held low, was doing his best to retard the procession.

Taking a firmer hold of the leading rein, the boy gave it a jerk
forward.

“Come up here, General!” he cried. “Where do you think you’re
going--to a funeral? Pretty near train time and we still have a good
stretch ahead of us!”

His companion, a slightly older youth, riding a brown pony, turned
in his saddle.

“Is he holding back on you, Teddy? Those Spanish bridles make
awfully poor leading. I think he’s got a sore mouth. And, if he has,
dad’ll find it out quick!”

“Boy, don’t I know it! Why,” Teddy Manley added with a chuckling
laugh, “I bet dad could tell if General didn’t sleep well the night
before. He sure is crazy over this horse!”

“I’ll tell a maverick he is!” cried Roy Manley. “Last thing he told
me before he left was to be sure to bring General in to meet him.
But as far as liking goes, you don’t exactly hate that Flash of
yours, I notice.”

The other boy grinned and patted the side of his bronco.

“Well,” he admitted, “I’m not saying much, but you have no right to
talk about falling in love with a horse. The way you treat Star
would make any one think he was made of cut glass! All the while
it’s easy now, Star, you might hurt yourself! Is that cinch-strap
too tight, Star? Here, let me brush that fly off your ear!’ Huh! Do
you tuck him in bed and kiss him good-night, Roy?”

Roy Manley refused the bait.

“I remember,” he said calmly, wiping the sweat from his upper lip
and leaving in its stead a streak of black dust, “when you first got
Flash. Dad gave him to you for your birthday. You were just a little
shaver then--”

“Aw, donkey-dust! Who do you think you are--Methuselah? Just because
you’re a year older--”

“You were just a little shaver then,” Roy went on imperturbably,
“and maybe you didn’t know what you were doing. You simply went into
ecstasy. Get that--ecstasy? Sixty-cent word. Yep, you jumped up and
down with glee, I’ll tell a maverick!”

“Well, if I jumped up and down with glee, you, by golly, stood on
your head when dad gave you Star! Now laugh that off!”

“We won’t argue about it,” Roy replied, with assumed dignity. “Baby,
this road is sure some dusty! Wind’s right at our backs, too. If I
took a drink of water now I’d turn into a mud-pie. Hey, Teddy, think
you can coax that cayuse you’re riding into something more than a
trickle? Maybe he’ll run, if you talk to him real nice.”

Teddy Manley did not reply, but clucked softly to his mount. Flash
responded with a leap that caused General, the bay that Teddy was
leading, to toss his head in protest.

“You’d better be careful,” Roy cautioned. “There’s only one man who
can boss General, and that’s dad. If the bay takes it into his head
to stop, he’ll _stop_, and neither one of us will be able to budge
him. Then dad’s train will pull in, and he’ll expect to find General
at the station waiting for him. And where’ll we be?”

“Down in the cellar eating spinach,” Teddy answered, with a grin.
“Flash, here, won’t let General balk on us! will you, old boy?” and
Teddy leaned forward and rubbed the horse’s nose. Flash nuzzled his
master’s hand affectionately.

“Why don’t you let up on that mush?” Roy asked in a disgusted tone.
“Go on, whisper pretty nothings in his ear! Talk about me and Star!
Why, when Gilly Froud--”

Eyes blazing, Teddy turned swiftly on his brother.

“Don’t mention that cur’s name to me,” he said thickly. “You know
what he did to Flash? He kicked him, that’s what he did! Kicked him!
And if dad hadn’t stopped me, I’d have--I’d have--”