IV

Joe Marino


Always, as long as Nick Looker had been on the ranch--five years
this coming winter--he had done his work cheerfully and well. The
men on the X Bar X had more than mere employees’ interest in the
ranch. They looked upon it as a home, and, as such, to be well cared
for.

“This here Pup--” Nick observed, “now, I don’t like to say nothin’
against a man when he ain’t here fer a come-back; but--well, boss,
The Pup sure likes his liquor. I don’t mind a man takin’ a nip now
and then, if he’s built that-away. But not during workin’ hours.”

“Do you mean to say Joe Marino has been drunk while he’s on the
job?” Teddy asked quickly.

“Now, maybe we’d better wait till The Pup shows up,” Nick countered,
shifting his shoulders uneasily. “He’ll be around soon. Maybe he’s
rode to town with Gus Tripp. Most likely that’s it.”

Mr. Manley puffed thoughtfully at his pipe. Through half shut eyes
he observed Nick. It was several moments before he spoke.

“Gus hasn’t been doin’ any promiscuous galivantin’, has he, Nick?
But never mind,” he added quickly, as he saw the cowboy move his
head from side to side. “I don’t want you to tell tales out of
school. We’ll wait. Whereabouts were all those breaks in the
fences?”

It was late in the afternoon before Gus Tripp rode in. With him was
The Pup. Roy, who had been seated outside the ranch house on a
bench, mending a broken stirrup, saw them come up. He dropped the
leather and hurried forward.

“Gus,” he called, “dad wants to see you. Tie your pony and come over
to the corral, will you? Joe, you too.”

“He want to see me?” The Pup asked, and Roy noticed that his voice
seemed unduly loud. “Well, I’m all set. Where is he?”

“Over by the corral, as I said. Hurry up. Get your letter Gus?”

“Nope--not any,” Gus answered. As he spoke he swayed slightly in the
saddle. “Funny--I kind of expected she might write. Guess I’m a back
number--ha--that’s funny--me a back number! Can ya imagine that,
Roy? A back number! Like a last year’s calendar! Say, that’s pretty
good. Get that one--that--that one, Roy? A last year’s calendar.
Huh! Pretty good! Made it up all--all by myself, too. Yesser! Pretty
good--pretty good,” and he wagged his head stupidly.

Roy looked at the cowboy sharply. This was unlike Gus. It was plain
to be seen that he had been drinking, probably at Rimor’s in town.
Roy approached, and laid hold of the bridle of Gus’s pony.

“Where have you been all day, Gus?” he asked quietly.

“Who, me?” Exaggerated surprise was on the man’s face. “Why, I--I
been busy. Me an’ The Pup. We both been busy. Awful busy. Ain’t we,
Joe?”

The Pup disdained to answer. An ugly look on his face, he lashed his
horse savagely, and jumped him toward the hitching rail. Then he
dismounted and walked toward Gus.

“Come on,” he snarled. “Don’t sit there talkin’. We got to see the
boss. Ain’t you heard orders?” and he looked at Roy, a sneer on his
face.

Roy flushed. He did not wish to seem above the men, but rather as
working with them. Joe intimated with his glance that Roy’s
authority was given by virtue of his being “the boss’s son,” and not
because he deserved it. Roy opened his mouth to reply, thought
better of it, and walked slowly away. The Pup laughed loudly. Roy
felt his muscles tighten, but he did not turn. He would not argue
with a man who had been drinking.

He was not present at the scene between Mr. Manley and Gus and The
Pup. Teddy told him of it later.

“There’s two we will have no longer with us,” Teddy said that night.
“Dad was feeding General sugar when they came up. Soon as he heard
them he whirled around and he knew in a second that they had been
hitting the bottle. Gus just looked kind of ashamed, but The Pup had
a mean look on his face.

“‘Gus, where you been?’ dad wanted to know. Gus said he’d been to
town, to get a letter that didn’t come. Said he’d been expecting it
for two weeks, and he was kind of disappointed. Say, Roy, I thought
he was sweet on Norine?” Norine was the daughter of Mrs. Moore, who
was the housekeeper on the X Bar X. “How about that?”