VII

Suspicion


The bright moon made the scene almost as light as day. Teddy could
see the man’s small, close-set eyes and his thin-lipped mouth as The
Pup thrust his face forward belligerently.

“You’re awfully sure about that, aren’t you?” the boy said in a low
voice. Perhaps another youth might disclaim such a quarrel as this,
which seemed purposely thrust upon him. Teddy had no reason to seek
a fight with Marino, nor even meet him half way. It would have been
better, perhaps, had the boy at this moment turned on his heel and
walked away. But Teddy was himself, and no one else. The memory of
Gus’s betrayal rankled within him.

The Pup moved his shoulders slightly, dropping the right one lower
than the left. Teddy settled himself firmly.

“Think yore some baby, don’t you?” the man flashed, and Teddy could
see a dark flush mount to his face. “You an’ that brother of yours!
Pah! Yuh make me sick!” and he spat energetically.

Teddy clenched his fists, but held his peace. He would not let
himself be talked into starting hostilities. If Marino wanted to
fight--well, there were two sides to the story.

Of a sudden The Pup changed his tone. His voice took on a whining,
ingratiating note.

“What are you two always pickin’ on me for?” he demanded. “I didn’t
do nothin’ to yuh. A feller can’t--”

Teddy saw the man’s hand leap to his belt. Like a bundle of coiled
springs the boy leaped forward. His open hand found The Pup’s wrist
and closed upon it, holding it in a firm grip. The other hand
pressed back the man’s chin--pressed it back until Marino was
staring with glassy eyes up into starry night.

“Drop it!” Teddy gasped, and a knife flashed to the ground. Teddy
kicked it to one side, felt about the man’s shirt to see that no
more weapons were concealed, and stepped back.

“A fine snake you are!” Teddy said contemptuously. “Tried to pull a
knife on me, didn’t you? For two cents I’d--”

“Oh, let me alone!” the man burst out. “Yes, I tried to knife you,
an’ I’m sorry I didn’t! I don’t like your kind! When I came out
here--” He stopped, and bit his lip.

Teddy gazed at him in wonder. The man’s Western accent had
disappeared. He carried a knife--a thing no true Westerner ever did
except for working purposes. Mexicans carried them--it was a Greaser
trait. Was this man a Mex? Teddy looked at him closely.

“What you starin’ at?” The Pup asked uneasily, once more reverting
to his former manner. “You got me, didn’t yuh? Well, call it a day!
Yuh got a shootin’ iron there--why don’t yuh use it?”

“I’m not in the habit of shooting men down in cold blood,” Teddy
said deliberately. He stepped closer to the man. “Marino! where are
you from?” he snapped.

Although a cloud dimmed the moon just then, Teddy could have sworn
he saw fear leap into the man’s eyes. Marino started as though he
had stepped on a rattler where he had expected to find a garden
snake, then recovered himself.

“Kind of a funny question to ask a man in these parts, ain’t it?” he
sneered.

“Not to my notion. But if you want to keep it to yourself, that’s
your lookout. The days when a gunman could come West and get a job
on a ranch without any one bothering about him until he let daylight
into some peaceful citizen, are gone forever.”

“An’ who wants a job on your place, anyhow?”

“That’s not the point. You’re on our land, and you were one of the
hands of the X Bar X. As long as you stay here you’ve got to watch
your step. What was the idea of toting that thing around?” Teddy
nodded toward the long knife, gleaming on the ground a few feet
away.

“That’s my business, too.”

“Well, when you try to stick me with it that makes it my business! I
guess it would be better for all concerned if you just moseyed out
of here, Marino!”