XIX

The Whirlpool


Yes, there was still plenty to worry about, if one was in a worrying
mood. The Manley boys and their companions were faced with the
prospect of having their whole journey, with its dangers and
hardships, go for nothing, if the rustlers reached the cattle first.
There was a bare chance that Mr. Manley and his party had gotten to
the Whirlpool River range in time to prevent the theft; but even
Teddy admitted that this chance was a slim one. The overland route
was long and tedious, and could not be accomplished in less than
four days at the minimum.

“Guess we’d better resign ourselves to a long chase after those
rustlers,” Roy said regretfully. “That is if they go through with
their plan, and I don’t see why they shouldn’t. It sounded
fool-proof to me. Certainly if the cattle were gone when dad got
there, he would naturally suspect Jake Trummer of carrying out his
threat and driving them into the river. Suppose we hadn’t heard the
thieves talking that night? We would have gone on and probably
backed dad up in saying Trummer had drowned the cows. When you think
of it, we were pretty lucky after all.”

“But what good is our luck going to do us if we get there after the
cattle are stolen?” Teddy asked, as he shifted his “paddle” to get a
better grip on it.

“Seems to me I heered tell of a couple of fellers chasin’ some
rustlers an’ makin’ out pretty well,” Pop drawled. “Could it have
been you an’ Roy, Teddy?”

“Oh, that was different,” Teddy objected. “We got right on their
trail then and rounded them up before they had a chance to escape.
But now we won’t even know which way to start. They may take the
cattle any place.”

“Can’t take ’em in the river an’ get much good out of ’em,” Bug Eye
snickered. “They won’t drive ’em back toward X Bar X, ’cause you
said they knew about yore dad comin’ along that trail. And as I
remember it, there’s mountains back of Whirlpool River range that
’ud make travelin’ with a herd of dogies pretty risky--especially if
the dirt on them hills is tearin’ loose. So it looks like there’s
only one way they could go, Teddy--an’ that’s straight ahead.”

“That’s one way too many,” Pop remarked, bending over to see if the
patch he had put in place was still firm. It was, and he leaned back
again. “There’s a straight trail through to the Border, branchin’
left from the river,” he continued. “They’ll head for that, sure as
shootin’. Course I ain’t sayin’ they’ll make it, but they’ll try
to.”

“No such word as ‘ain’t,’” Bug Eye said absently. “But Pop, how far
is it to the Border? Good eight days’ ride, ain’t it--isn’t it?”

“All of that. But what’s eight days? I been in saddle longer than
that many a time. I remember, back in ’97--stop that splashin’, Bug
Eye! I had my bath!”

“Back in ’97?” Bug Eye grinned.

Pop became absorbed in the shore line and refused to answer. Bug Eye
winked, and, resting his head on his arm, started to snore loudly. A
sharp dig in the ribs from Pop convinced him of the error of his
ways, and he sat up, an innocent look on his face.

“Me, I’m tired!” he proclaimed. “When do we hit those rapids you
been talkin’ so much about, Pop? Last time I came over here they was
nothin’ but a few waves. I craves excitement, I do.”

“You’ll get it,” Pop said laconically. “They’ll be more than a few
waves this time. An’ that reminds me. Roy, you an’ Teddy been
workin’ long enough. What say you give me an’ Bug Eye a crack at it?
The rapids are just below here, an’ I want to do the steerin’ as we
hit ’em. I been over ’em many times, an’ I think I can put us
through all right.”

“Yo’re a great thinker,” Bug Eye murmured, as he changed places with
Teddy and received the board he was to use as a paddle. “Pop, what
am I supposed to do with this here barrel stave, or whatever it is?
Cheer you, or somethin’?”

“When I say left, you paddle on the left. When I say right, you
shift. That’s all.”

“An’ when you say ‘here she goes,’ I take my little bath,” Bug Eye
snickered. “All right, Pop. O.K.! Me an’ my flat board is ready.”

“Are ready,” grinned Pop. “Yuh forget yore plural nominative, Bug
Eye. Well, let’s see you work now!”