“Branding irons!” Roy ejaculated. “Branding irons, as sure as you’re
a foot high! Can you beat that?”

“They sure are!” Teddy cried excitedly. Bending over, he picked one
up. “Roy! See here!”

The older boy looked eagerly at the object in his brother’s hand. It
was a square piece of iron fastened to a wooden handle, and between
the handle and the plate was a piece of fluted and corrugated metal,
to allow rapid radiation of heat and prevent the burning of the
wood. Teddy turned the iron over. On the face, in raised characters,
was marked: 8 X 8.

“Pete Ball’s brand!” Roy exclaimed. “Now what--”

“If they had a sign on the door, ‘Horse Thieves,’ they couldn’t tell
us plainer than this,” Teddy interrupted.

“But this is an 8 X 8 branding iron,” put in Roy slowly. “They
wouldn’t want to brand the cattle they stole with the same brand.”

Instead of replying, Teddy picked up another one of the irons. This
had a small circle at each end and four curves between.

“I’ll bet this is a fake branding iron!” cried the younger ranch lad
triumphantly. “Don’t you see, Roy? They can stamp this fake iron
directly over the 8 X 8 and that will make an entirely different
brand, having a three-leafed clover at each end with a curved rope
uniting them.”

“Say, I’ve heard something about that before!” came quickly from the
older boy. “Don’t you remember dad’s talking once about the Rope and
Clover brand which was used by some rustlers in upper Montana? I’ll
bet this is the same kind of outfit!”

“It certainly looks that way!”

The two brothers examined the fake iron and the real one with care,
and then Teddy turned to his brother.

“The question is--what is to be done?” he demanded.

“Well, what can we do? Seems like it’s raining harder than ever now.
Even if we did cut for home and tell the gang what we’ve found, what
good would it do? It’s a cinch those rustlers won’t come back when
they know we’re watching this cabin.”

“But do they have to know that? Why can’t we get the bunch, sneak
back, and lay for those horse and cattle thieves? They’ll return
sooner or later, because their guns and stuff are here.”

Roy thought for a moment.

“It’s a chance,” he said finally. “Of course, they may come back
while we’re gone and cart their things away. But we’ve got to risk
that. The only thing is, if we stayed here ourselves we’d be sure to
see them and maybe we could follow them to their hiding place where
they keep the cattle. Then we’d have them cold--our horses too. That
is, if this is the same bunch that stole Star and Flash and
General.”

“Don’t you worry about that! There’s only one gang of rustlers about
here, and they do all the jobs. And Froud is one of them, I’ll bet!
So is Checkered Shirt.” Teddy tossed the branding iron into the
corner. “But if we did stay here, and even if the rustlers did
return, how do we know they’d lead us to their cache? And suppose
they caught us and we got plugged? That whole gang would head for
the border, pronto, and drive their stolen cattle before them.
They’d take our broncs with them, most likely, and that’d be the
end. Nope, Roy, we’d better get the rest of our fellows and try to
capture the thieves when they come back here.”

Roy walked to the door, which had blown partly closed, and flung it
open savagely.

“I sure hate to leave here!” he declared, his mouth pressed into a
thin line. “This bunch has got our broncos, I know it! What I’d like
to do would be to wait here till they showed up, then with these
rifles, make ’em tell where the horses are. I’m getting sick and
tired of this waiting business. Can’t tell what they’ve done to
Star! If I find he’s been beaten--”

“Take it easy, Roy,” Teddy said softly. “You’re doing the very thing
you always tell me not to do--lose my temper. That won’t get us any
place. I want Flash back as much as you want Star, but we’ve got to
go at it carefully. Snap out of it now!”

“Guess you’re right,” Roy replied, with a slight grin. “I got sore
for a minute, seeing those irons and things and thinking of Star.
We’ll start for home and tell dad what we found, collect Nick and
the rest and mosey back here as fast as we can. Baby! I hope the
rustlers are here then! Come on, Teddy, let’s go! Rain or no rain,
we’ll nab those thieves!”