XXII

The Man at the Fire


“Our pony!”

Mr. Manley almost shouted it.

“Do you mean to say that’s the bronc that Marino stole?”

“Look at him yourself, Dad!” Teddy cried excitedly. “Wait, I’ll see
if I can get him. He knows me--I broke him. Stay here.”

The boy rode rapidly forward. The horse did not turn and run, but
stood, waiting. In a moment Teddy had hold of his bridle rein and
was leading him back.

“See? Isn’t he?”

Mr. Manley looked closer.

“He certainly is, Teddy! Well, for the love of Pete! how’d _he_ get
here--an’ where’s The Pup?”

“Can’t tell you that, Dad,” Teddy replied. He turned to Roy. “Now
are you so sure that we’ll never see Marino again? He’s around here
somewhere, I’ll bet a plugged nickel! Maybe he got thrown. If it
wasn’t so dark we could have a look for him.”

“By golly, it’s the pinto!” Pop exclaimed, riding up. “Where’d he
come from, Teddy? I saw that horse out yonder, but I didn’t pay no
attention to him. Thought he had a man with him. The pinto! The Pup
must have followed up the river from the time we saw him! Snakes!
wonder if he’s around?”

“That bronc of yours is a good watch dog,” Roy declared to Nat. “It
was this horse he sensed, and the lowlands had nothin’ to do with
it. Pop, you’re all twisted. Nat’s pony was calling in this pinto.”

“Meybe,” Pop agreed doubtfully. “I ain’t sayin’ nothin’. Well, boss,
do we camp? We can picket this hoss and come back for him later.
He’ll stand, I reckon.”

“Won’t do much wanderin’ with his leg like that,” Bug Eye remarked.
It was practically the first sentence he had uttered since they had
left Jake Trummer’s place. “He’s got a sore there that seems as if
it might have been made some time ago.”

“It was,” Teddy remarked laconically. “I brought Roy in to look at
it the night he was stolen. That’s how I found he was gone. Wherever
The Pup is, he’s on foot. Unless he got thrown, and is lying hurt
somewhere.”

“And alone,” added Roy, with a note of pity in his voice.

The uselessness of attempting to find Marino in the dark was
apparent to all, and, leaving the knoll on which he stood, Mr.
Manley rode forward until he and Jake Trummer came to a spot which
bordered on a group of trees.

“We can pitch camp here,” Mr. Trummer suggested. “There’s a spring
in them trees, good an’ cold. In the mornin’ we can start at sun-up,
and then, by golly, we’ll run them rustlers to earth. They don’t
know we’re comin’, but they’ll learn soon enough. Tryin’ to lay the
blame on me fer the cattle bein’ gone! Huh, I’m kinda anxious to
meet Denver Smith an’ his gang!”

The horses were picketed some distance from the camping spot, a fire
was built and blankets were unrolled. The night was cold, and the
men huddled as closely as possible to the blaze, wrapped tightly in
their thick coverings. The heavens were entirely obscured by clouds,
and beyond the fire a blackness, like heavy velvet, covered the
land.

Supper was soon concluded, for the party was “traveling light.” But
three men had been told to carry rations, and, consequently, there
was hardly enough from which to make a feast. But beans and bacon
are filling, and no one went actually hungry.

There was little talk after supper. The finding of The Pup’s pony
was commented upon, and guesses were hazarded concerning the
whereabouts of Marino, but that was all. The men were tired, and
tired men waste no time in idle talk. Definitely and directly they
go to sleep.

Within an hour the only sounds to be heard were the uneasy neighings
of the horses and the crackling of the fire as it burned brightly
and then sank down again. Each man had his rifle by his side, in
case he was awakened by a curious beast sniffing at his ear, but no
one actually anticipated having to use the firearm.