“Afraid so, boys. After what Nick said I can’t afford to leave the
place without some one who can handle things. We’ve got a long ride
ahead of us--might be a week. And I’ve got to know that the ranch is
bein’ taken care of. I didn’t exactly like Marino’s attitude when I
gave him the gate. If he tries any funny stuff, you’ve got to be on
the job.”

“I see, Dad,” Roy answered. “That’s the right thing, I guess. If you
want us to come on later, we can head down the river by boat and get
there almost as soon as you can. Now what are the orders, Dad?”

It was a disappointment for the boys to stay at home, when they had
been counting on riding with their father, but both saw the wisdom
of Mr. Manley’s plan. Their mother would not care to stay any length
of time on the ranch without some one of responsibility near by,
especially in view of what had lately happened. She was not a
nervous woman, but she realized that the presence of a man like Joe
Marino on the ranch was a constant threat.

Then, as Teddy and Roy thought that their two friends from the 8 X 8
were visiting Belle, things began to look brighter. They had no real
reason for expecting trouble from Jake Trummer. As soon as he heard
the straight of the affair he would probably “snap to,” as Teddy
expressed it.

“But if you want us, we’ll be ready,” the boy continued. “You’re
taking five men, aren’t you? That ought to be enough. We haven’t
more than three hundred head in that herd, from the last checking.
Guess five can handle ’em.”

Mr. Manley smiled at his son’s assumption of an old rancher’s
prerogative, but he took care that Teddy did not see the smile. He
wanted his sons to have full confidence in themselves, and to this
end he never hesitated to place responsibility on either Teddy or
Roy.

Before starting, Mr. Manley gave the necessary instructions for the
running of the ranch, then, with complete assurance that they would
be carried out to the letter, he set out. Teddy and Roy watched the
party, led by Mr. Manley, head for the road and toward Whirlpool
River.

“Kind of wish we were going,” Teddy declared, as he waved a hand in
farewell. “But dad knows best. Come on--let’s see what Nell and
Curly are doing.”

The rest of the day passed uneventfully. Teddy and Roy, after they
had attended to the immediate business of the ranch, went for an
evening ride with the three girls. Bug Eye and his Fishmobile were
to stay the night, and possibly several days, to look over some
cattle on the north range that Peter Ball, his boss, was thinking of
purchasing to fill out his stock. There had been an epidemic of
blackleg among the cows of the 8 X 8, and Mr. Ball wanted to get
some healthy Durhams in to fill out, as he had lately contracted to
fill a large order from Denver for cattle on the hoof.

On the way back to the ranch, Nell and Ethel, or more popularly,
“Curly,” rode on ahead, while Teddy and Roy talked in low tones of
The Pup. Roy had neglected to tell his father of the conversation he
had heard behind the cook house, but when he informed Teddy, the
younger lad attached little importance to it.

“The Pup probably wanted Gus to go on a spree with him,” Teddy
suggested. “I guess Gus has had enough of that sort of thing. He’s
not built for it. Gus, normally, is a clean liver. He doesn’t take
much to booze and he would never have touched it if he hadn’t been
worried about something. Wonder what he’s going to do now?”

“But what did he mean when he said dad had a right to discharge him
and he wouldn’t hold it against him?” Roy persisted, not answering
his brother’s question. “Doesn’t that sound as though Marino wanted
Gus to go into some scheme to get even with dad?”

“Aw, don’t be so pessimistic! Golly, Roy, you’re up to your old
tricks again, aren’t you? Let it ride! Even if The Pup did have some
such plan in mind, he’ll forget it as soon as he hits Rimor’s and
gets lit up, and I’ll bet money that’s what he’s doing this minute.
I only hope Gus isn’t with him. You say they rode off together?”

“Yes. That’s why I’m worried. But, after all, there’s no use hunting
for trouble. We’ve got enough as it is.”

Darkness had settled over the land when the riders reached home. The
supper table seemed strangely vacant with Mr. Manley absent, but the
girls and Teddy and Roy kept up a running fire of conversation, so
that Mrs. Manley had not time to think long about her husband riding
far out on the trail. They tried to keep her, as much as possible,
from worrying.

Later in the evening Teddy left the porch and walked toward the
bunk-house, to see Nat Raymond about the next day’s work. As he
neared the corral he heard Flash neigh as though he knew Teddy was
near, and the boy turned aside for a moment.