IV

A CLUE


As the automobile careened along the dusty road, a strained silence
settled over the occupants. The only sounds were the muffled exhaust
of the motor and the squeaking and groaning of the springs as the
car bounced its way toward the X Bar X.

Bug Eye and Roy were in the front seat and Mr. Manley and the two
girls were seated in the rear. Teddy was supporting himself upon a
rear door of the touring car, clenching the sides to hold his place
against the joltings of the flivver, and bent almost double to avoid
hitting the roof whenever Bug Eye dived into a particularly deep
rut.

Thoughts of the loss of the ponies were uppermost in the minds of
all. Bug Eye, used to Western ways, did not press Mr. Manley as to
his plan of action. He knew the cattle owner would prefer to keep
whatever opinions he had until he reached the X Bar X and could get
his men together. Bug Eye, belonging to another outfit, could have
no concern in the matter until Mr. Manley asked for his help, at
which time the cowboy would lend willing aid. Such is the code of
the West.

Ethel, wedged in between Nell and Mr. Manley, stole a glance at
Teddy as the boy braced himself upon the edge of the car door, his
shoulders hunched, his body swaying with the motion of the machine,
his eyes staring moodily out at the dust-covered bushes at the side
of the road. She noticed how hard and brown was the hand that
clenched the top of the door. The mouth, widened into a happy grin
when she had first seen it, was now drooped at the corners. The
bronzed forehead, below the sombrero, was drawn into a frown.

Ethel nudged Nell with her elbow.

“Doesn’t it seem quiet out here, after the city?” she murmured, with
another glance at Teddy.

The boy looked at her quickly.

“You mean us, I guess,” he said, grinning slightly. “We haven’t been
very polite, have we? But, you see, it kind of hurts to lose a pony
you’ve had for so long. I--”

“Of course, I know just how you feel!” Ethel burst out impulsively.
“It’s a shame! You just go after those--those rustlers, and get your
horses back!”

“We will,” Teddy answered grimly. “At least, we’ll do our best. But
there’s no use crying over spilt milk.”

“That’s the way I feel about it, son,” Mr. Manley said quietly.
“We’ll do all we can to get the broncs back! When we’re ready, I
want you and Roy to come along with me. As soon as we reach home
we’ll get other ponies and be on our way.” He pulled the ends of his
mustache and settled down once more into silence.

Teddy knew this mood of his father. He had seen it twice before,
once, years ago, when a puncher had knocked Roy down, and once when
a cowboy, with a misshapen idea of humor, had coaxed Teddy upon the
back of the worst horse on the ranch, a real “man-eater.” On each of
these occasions certain things had happened which directly affected
the person in error.

When the car reached Bitter Cliff lookout, Bug Eye slowed down and
stopped for a moment.

“Look there!” he said laconically, waving his arm in a wide gesture.

Nell leaned forward, then uttered a slight exclamation.

“What’s the matter?” Roy asked, smiling.

“It’s so--so close and high!” the girl answered, with a motion of
her hands. “Why, it almost seems as though I could reach out and
touch the chimney of that house away off there!”

“You try it,” Teddy said, with a chuckle. “That’s six miles away!
Those buildings are on the X Bar X ranch--our place. Over to the
west, where you see that other corral, is the 8 X 8, where you’re
going.”

“Bug Eye,” Mr. Manley said gently, “if it’s all the same to you,
we’d better get goin’.”

“Right!” Bug Eye answered. He advanced the gasoline control and the
flivver again shot forward.