V

Guarded Words


Sadly enough, however, it was Gus Tripp who was the storm center.
This thing had been the only blot on his escutcheon during the three
years he had worked for the X Bar X. Willingly would Mr. Manley have
wiped it clean had Gus given him the opportunity. But the die was
cast. Gus--he of the drawling speech and eyes which were wont to
grow languid while Norine was near--had gone.

No one gave much thought to Joe Marino, “The Pup.” Though he had
worked for Bardwell Manley, somehow he had never become a part of
the ranch, as the rest had. He was a man apart, neither seeking nor
admitting intimate friendship. His fondness for the cup, alleged to
cheer, was early discovered, but Mr. Manley was loath to discharge a
man for a personal defect so long as it did not affect his work. Up
to this time The Pup had been a lone drinker, but now, when it
became necessary to send him forth because he shirked his job, he
dragged one of the most popular boys on the ranch with him.

Pop Burns was loud in his denunciation of the tempter. While the
boys were saddling their broncos the next morning, preparing to head
for Whirlpool River, the old man halted The Pup as he was lurching
past toward the cook house.

“You still eatin’ here?” he wanted to know.

“I am. Anything to you?” The Pup’s eyes, red from the effect of the
last night’s indiscretion, glared evilly. “Want to ask any more
questions?”

“Well, now, maybe jest one or two,” the veteran puncher said slowly.
“First, where’d Gus duck to?”

“How should I know? Think I’m his keeper?”

“Keeper? Not any! I thought you pretended to be his friend, but I
guess I was mistaken. Usually, when a man tells a fellow certain
things, that other man kind of likes to keep track of his buddy.”

“Hey? What do you mean--certain things? I don’t know nothin’ about
Gus. He rode with me a few times, that’s all.” The Pup leered
suggestively. “If you mean the letter he was waitin’ for from that
skirt down Togas way, why--”

Pop Burns’ expression changed. His eyes narrowed, and the lines
about his mouth deepened. His hands clenched until they looked like
solid balls of brown leather.

“Suppose you just forget about that,” he said evenly, an unwonted
dignity coming into the old man’s voice and manner. “Understand? We
ain’t in the habit of talkin’ out in public about another man’s
affairs. Gus was a friend of mine, I ain’t aimin’ to listen to a
coyote like you makin’ fun of him. Get me?”

The Pup started to reply, then took a second look at Pop’s face, and
thought better of it. With an uneasy laugh he turned away and walked
toward the corral, where his pony was tied. Pop motioned to Teddy,
who was filling a can of flour some distance away.

“Hear that?”

Teddy nodded.

“Some of it. I didn’t want to interfere, so I kept quiet. Dad wants
The Pup off the place as soon as possible. He blames him for the
whole affair.”

“Yore dad’s right about that, Teddy. The Pup has got a streak of
orneriness in him a yard wide. He ain’t no good to no one, least of
all himself. Wouldn’t be surprised if we saw some more of him, at
that, one way or another.”

“You mean he’ll make trouble?”

“Well, he ain’t appeared to be a dove of peace so far, has he?” Pop
countered. “An’ he’ll not hang his tail between his laigs an’ run
without one more nip at somebody. You mark my words! I knew them
kind of waddies. Long ago, when yore grandpop was alive--an’ yore
dad was only a shaver then, like you are--we had a cuss by the name
of--” He broke off suddenly. “All right, boss! Comin’!” Pop called
out, and he hurried off in response to Mr. Manley’s call.

Teddy watched him disappear in the direction of the ranch house,
then reflectively continued packing the can with flour. But as he
worked with his hands, a frown came to his face. He was remembering
Pop’s prophecy.