Roy threw the pole down in annoyance.

“Thought I had him, sure!” he declared. “Ever see a fish act like
that before? Wise as they make ’em! He just waited until I started
to reel in, then stopped short and broke the line. Well, he sure
timed it pretty. My respects to a clever fish,” and he removed his
hat and made a mock bow.

“But he’s carrying quite a weight of line,” Teddy said, with a
chuckle. “He’ll have that to remember you by, Roy.”

“Like fun he will!” his brother cried. “He knows his apples, that
fish. He’ll just swim around a stump a few times, tangle the line in
it, give a jerk and he’s free. I know that kind. Some of ’em can
speak Greek and Latin.”

The boys fished with fair luck for an hour or so longer, Teddy
landing two large ones and Roy three smaller trout. The “whopper”
that had struck Roy’s line did not return, though the ranch lad had
coaxed him with all the brightly colored flies in his packet.

“Getting sort of late,” Teddy remarked, as he stood on the bank
adjusting a hook. “What say we cut for home? We’ve got quite a ride
ahead of us, you know. Let’s get started.”

Roy nodded.

“I just want to make one more cast. Something tells me that the big
fellow I hooked first is still hanging around. If he is, and wants
some more fun, I’ll give it to him! Just once more, Teddy.”

The boy drew back his rod for a cast. His arm still bent back, Teddy
caught his wrist. Roy looked up in surprise.

“What--” he began. Then he saw the look on his brother’s face and
stopped.

“Keep quiet!” Teddy whispered. “Through the bushes there! See? A man
on horseback!”

Roy stared intently. But he did not get a good view of the intruder,
for the sound of a pony breaking trail came to the ears of the boys
at that moment, and the horse and rider disappeared.

“Roy, I’ll bet anything that was Froud!” Teddy exclaimed excitedly.
“And he was on Flash, too! I’d know that horse among a million!
Golly, that settles it! Froud is the thief!”

“Are you sure it _was_ Froud?” Roy asked. “I didn’t get a good look
at him--but what I saw didn’t look a great deal like Scar Face!”

“He did to me!” Teddy insisted. Then the boy stepped from the side
of the stream into the woods. He parted the bushes, and glanced
about.

“Not a sign of him,” he said regretfully. “Let’s get our broncs,
Roy, and ride around here! There may be something to that theory of
yours about the gang’s headquarters.”

The boys ran quickly to where they had left the horses. Teddy half
expected to find them gone, but they were not, and, in a moment, the
two young ranchers were mounted, having taken their rods apart and
slipped them into a case as they ran.

They rode toward the place they had seen the figure and examined the
earth for hoofprints. These they easily discovered.

“He went this way,” Roy declared, pointing. “We can ride along and
see what we can find. It’s toward home, anyway.”

“I’ll bet anything that was Froud on Flash!” Teddy remarked, almost
to himself. “When he saw us he beat it. Let’s follow up these
tracks, Roy.”

The boys cantered along, eyes upon the ground, easily tracing the
marks in the soft earth near the side of the stream. For about a
mile they rode. Then they were halted. The tracks led directly down
into the stream.

“That stops us,” Roy declared, in a disappointed tone. “He may have
gone any place from here. Most likely he doubled back and crossed to
the other side. Well, that’s that! Another failure!”

“But I’m sure it was Flash he was on!” Teddy said in a positive
voice. “I couldn’t be mistaken there. We’ll hurry back and tell dad.
Maybe he’ll want to go after the skunk.”

The day was drawing to a close, and the two boys started homeward.
Roy had not forgotten the fish, and these hung from the pommel of
the saddle, giving the horse many uneasy moments trying to figure
what those cold things were that kept tapping him on the side.