XIX

ESCAPE


It was not fright that held Roy motionless, but a realization of the
hopelessness of resistance. A slight tightening of the crooked
finger that touched the trigger would send a ball of lead tearing
through his body, and at the short range there could be but one
result. It seemed best to Roy that he bide his time.

“Nice of you to call on me like this,” Gilly Froud went on, in that
sinister, mocking tone. “An’ I begs you’ll excuse the looks of the
place. We ain’t quite ready to receive visitors, yet.”

“What did you do with our horses and with Bug Eye’s flivver?” Roy
asked, looking straight at the man.

This Froud was no weakling. He sat hunched over in his saddle, huge
shoulders bent forward. The arm which supported the gun wavered not
an inch, but held firm as a rock.

“Don’t start askin’ questions,” Froud growled. “It won’t do you no
good, ’cause I don’t know nothin’ about yore hosses. I heard you had
’em stolen from the hitchin’ rail at Eagles. Well, any one who’s
fool enough to leave a hoss unguarded in that town, should have him
stolen!”

“That’s a lie, Froud, and you know it!” Roy said hotly. “They’d
never have been touched if it hadn’t been for you--and that pal of
yours in the checkered shirt.”

“Hey? What’s that?” Froud exclaimed in a startled voice. The muzzle
of the gun pointed downward for a moment, but Froud quickly brought
it to bear again upon the boy. “What do you know about a man in a
checkered shirt? Speak up!”

“Enough,” Roy ventured grimly. He was watching the rustler closely,
ready to take advantage of any chance offered. But Froud did not
relax his vigilance.

“What’s his name, this bird in the--er--striped shirt?” the former
cowboy from the X Bar X demanded.

“I don’t know his name, but I know him!” the boy exclaimed. “And I
know he’s one of your gang, too!”

“So you don’t know his name, hey?” Froud appeared relieved. “Well,
he’s no friend o’ mine. He travels with a different outfit than what
I do. Here--”

Froud suddenly peered out from the trees. The next moment he jammed
the gun into Roy’s ribs.

“You make a sound an’ I’ll drill you sure!” he whispered fiercely.

Cautiously, Roy turned his head. Not fifty feet away was his brother
Teddy, riding slowly along past the grove.

“Quiet!” Froud ordered softly between set teeth. “If you want to see
how two ounces of lead feels between yore ribs, just yell! By golly,
I’ll blow yore liver right out o’ you!”

Roy recognized the desperate ring in the rustler’s voice and knew
that the least move on his part would result in his death. Froud was
seized with a sort of panic, and at the slightest sign from Teddy
that the latter knew of his brother’s plight, the rascal would start
shooting.

As Roy saw his brother pass out of sight, he felt the pressure of
the gun at his side relax, and Froud unconsciously sighed with
relief.

“I’m takin’ no chances,” he whispered in Roy’s ear. “Don’t you talk
till I say so! Do you hear?”

A moment more, and the sound of Teddy’s horse died away in the
distance.

“Guess he’s gone,” Froud declared. “But I don’t want no funny work,
savvy? Don’t think that because I haven’t got this gun stuck in yore
ribs that I ain’t got you covered. You keep both yore hands on the
pommel of yore saddle--no lower.”

“If you didn’t steal our broncs, what’s the idea of being so
touchy?” Roy asked in as innocent a voice as he could summon. “Why
not let me ride on and try to find the thieves who took Bug Eye’s
flivver?”

“That’s my business!” Froud retorted savagely. “When I wants advice
from you, I’ll ask for it, see? I ain’t forgot how your old man
kicked me off the X Bar X!”