“Don’t know,” Roy replied. “Gus told me about the letter, too. I
have an idea that had something to do with his drinking--he never
used to touch it before. But go ahead. What happened next?”

“Well, as I said, dad caught on right away, and he was some sore.
Told ’em both to get out--that he wouldn’t have men on his ranch who
drank during working hours. Then he asked The Pup what was the idea,
lying to Nick and getting him to change places with him, so The Pup
could ride herd. At first Joe wouldn’t tell, but when Gus let out a
few secrets the whole thing came forth. It seems that The Pup wanted
to take the cows so he could slip away to town when he felt like it
and liquor up and no one would know about it. How he ever got Gus to
consent to a thing like that is beyond me unless, as you say, Gus
isn’t himself on account of that letter.”

“What did Gus do when The Pup spilled the beans?”

“Just acted as if he was mighty sorry. Roy, it isn’t like Gus to
pull a stunt like that. He isn’t built that way. Joe Marino, now--I
wouldn’t put it past him. I don’t like that hombre for a cent. When
he came here last month, dad was short a hand, or he never would
have taken him. And now look at the trouble he’s got us in. Jake
Trummer, one of dad’s oldest friends, turned into an enemy. You
know, Roy, I think something happened up on Whirlpool River at
Jake’s ranch besides the mere fact that our cattle wandered there.
That, in itself, wouldn’t cause Jake to raise the row he did. I’ll
bet The Pup said something to Jake that he didn’t want to repeat,
knowing dad as he does. So he took it all out in being sore about
the cattle.”

“Maybe,” Roy said slowly. “So Gus is going to leave, is he?”

“Yep! Fact is, he’s gone now. When dad finished, Gus straightened up
like a man and shook his head to clear it. Then he spoke right out
and admitted he’d been in the wrong--that he’d got it coming to him.
Said it was all his fault about the cows and that dad was perfectly
right to fire him, and that he’s blamed sorry.”

“He did?” Roy’s eyes lighted. “Good for Gus! I knew he was a
straight shooter, even if he did make a mistake. What did The Pup
say then?”

“He looked at Gus with a kind of funny expression on his face. Then
he let a gob of tobacco juice ride at the ground, laughed, and
walked away. Gus took it all. He sure feels pretty low over this.”

At that moment Mrs. Manley came to the door, saw Teddy and Roy
seated on the porch steps, and called to them.

“Boys,” she said, “will you come in a minute? Your father wants to
see you.”

“And so do I,” a girl’s voice added. Belle Ada, the sister of Roy
and Teddy, walked out on the porch. “Where’s that new whip you
promised me, Teddy? Got it?”

“Haven’t had time yet, Belle,” Teddy answered. “Have it to-morrow
sure. I’m going in to town then, and I’ll stop by and pick it up. It
ought to be at the express office by now. I ordered it last week.”

“Oh, you’ll forget it,” Belle declared, and then laughed.

Belle was twelve years old, with dark hair and eyes. In disposition
she was a great deal like Teddy--happy-go-lucky, always ready for
fun.

“You’d better tie a string around your finger. Or, better still,
around your toe. You’re liable to miss it on your finger, and you
stub your toe so often that you can’t miss it there.”

“Aw, take a rest,” and Teddy grinned. “Come on, Roy, we’ll hop in
and see dad. Where is he, Mother?”

“In his room. I think it’s about Gus that he wants to talk to you.
I’m so sorry that happened, boys! I told your father that he should
go more slowly. He was so worked up over Mr. Trummer’s visit that he
wasn’t quite himself. I tried to calm him as much as I could, and
now I think he regrets that he acted so hastily. But you go in and
let him tell you himself.”

Mr. Manley was seated in a chair in his room, with his corncob pipe,
unlit, between his teeth. This was always a sign of mental
uneasiness with him. When smoke came from the pipe, all was well.
When it reposed in his mouth cold and dead, there was usually
something up.

“Want us, Dad?” Teddy asked.

“Yes. Want to make talk. Come in. Shut the door. Either one of you
see Gus?”