XV

PLANNING A DANCE


“Gus!” exclaimed Mr. Manley. “What happened?” Teddy and Roy looked
anxiously at the rider.

“Had a little accident, boss,” Gus replied, a wry smile on his
somewhat pale face. “Mebby if you an’ I was to take a little walk--”

Mr. Manley nodded quickly, understandingly, and turned to the girls.

“Belle Ada,” he said swiftly, “suppose you show Nell an’ Ethel the
garden? I know they’d like to see it.”

Sensing the reason behind her father’s suggestion, Belle led the way
toward the side of the ranch house. Gus turned in his saddle and
watched the three girls depart. When they were out of sight and
hearing, he took a long breath, swayed in the saddle, then gritted
his teeth and straightened up. Roy walked over to him and, reaching
up, seized him around the waist and practically lifted him from his
horse.

“Let’s see that wound, Gus,” Mr. Manley demanded. His teeth set
grimly in his lower lip, the puncher thrust the injured arm forward.

The cattle owner took hold of it gently and bent over it. Then he
gave a cry.

“It’s a gunshot wound! You’ve been plugged, Gus!”

“Cor-rect.” Gus turned his head wearily. “Teddy, I wonder if you’d
cut this here sleeve off me? You see it’s kind o’ stuck, an’ when I
pull it--”

“Sure, Gus!” the boy answered with a note of pity in his voice.
“Have it off in a jiffy.”

Opening his jackknife, Teddy slit the sleeve loose just below the
armpit. As gently as he could, he peeled the cloth away from the
wound. Gus winced, but uttered never a word until the sleeve was
off. Then he heaved a sigh and said laconically:

“Thanks, Teddy! Feels better now. Much obliged.”

Sing Lung, who stood watching the scene with wide eyes, now scurried
into the cookhouse and returned in a moment with a stool.

“Gus,” he said, “you sittee down. Feel bettah. I gettee you dlink!”
Entering the kitchen once more, the Chinese came back with a cup of
water. Gus drank it gratefully.

“You’re a fine cook, Sing Lung,” the injured man drawled, handing
the cup back. The sun-tanned red had returned to his cheeks, but Mr.
Manley noticed that there was just a bit too much color there now.

“Yep, a fine cook,” Gus repeated, as though to himself. “A fine
cook! Only--you can’t bake _bread_.”

“Here, Gus,” Roy said in a loud voice, “snap out of that! Does your
arm hurt much? What happened?”

“What--this?” Gus held up the arm and examined it as if it belonged
to another man. “Naw, she don’t hurt. Feels kind of funny, that’s
all. Well, I’ll tell you what happened.” Taking another deep breath,
the cowboy regained control of himself with an obvious effort and
went on:

“You know I went down to Eagles for the mail.” Mr. Manley turned to
Sing Lung and said something in a low voice. The cook disappeared,
to return in a moment with a white shirt. While Gus talked, Mr.
Manley was using strips of this as a bandage to stop the bleeding.

“For the mail,” Gus repeated. “When I reached town I tied my bronc
up an’ stopped for a second outside Rimor’s Place, thinkin’ of
Checkered Shirt. But I thought there was no use in goin’ in there to
look, ’cause, even if I did find him, I didn’t have nothin’ on him.
So I started for the post-office.” He hesitated, while Mr. Manley
wound the improvised bandage tightly about the arm. “Well,” he
continued, “just then Rimor’s door swung open and a puncher came
out. He took a quick look at me, turned around, an’ ducked back
again. Boss, that’s plenty tight! Where was I? Yea--he ran in again.

“Thinks I, I’ve seen that buckeroo some place before. Then it hits
me like a load of bricks. It was Gilly Froud!”

Teddy and Roy started back. Mr. Manley looked up into the eyes of
the injured man.