Before he replied, Bug Eye got to his feet. His fists were clenched.

“I’ll say I do!” he roared. “An’ I got good reason, too! That’s the
hombre that’s been rustlin’ our cattle, an’ you can’t tell me any
different.”

“Why do you say that?” Teddy asked, leaning forward.

“Because I seen him!” Bug Eye exclaimed. “That’s why! I was on the
range that day the bunch was cut from our herd. I saw ’em go, too,
an’ made a dash for the rustlers. But they got away. There was one
buckeroo who took a pot shot at me, an’ I saw him close! He was the
one with the scar on his face, an’ he’s the one who stole that
flivver, or I’m a Siamese twin!”

“You don’t know his name, do you?” Roy demanded excitedly.

“You mean what he _calls_ himself? No, I don’t! An’ I don’t want to
either! I don’t need no introduction to a rattlesnake to shoot him!”

In the excitement, Gus Tripp had arisen and was listening with the
rest. Now he walked forward and held out his uninjured hand to the
driver of the stolen flivver.

“Shake, Bug Eye,” he said solemnly. “You an’ me are together on
that. I’m lookin’ fer that very same rattlesnake!”

“What happened to you?” Bug Eye asked, in surprise.

“Little accident,” and Gus grinned sardonically. “Accident caused by
that hombre with the scar on his face you tell about bein’
interested in. He shot me.”

“Yea? You don’t say! Well, by golly, we’ll get him! Shake!”

“Here, we’re in on this!” Pop Burns cried, stepping forward. “He
stole three of our best horses, each one with the purtiest X Bar X
brand on it you ever see, ’cause I branded ’em myself!”

“What do you say, boys?” Mr. Manley cried, turning to the punchers.
“Do we go after ’em? Hey?”

“You bet!” came his answer in a roaring chorus. “Let’s go! Nick,
throw that mouth-organ of yours out the window! We got business!”

“All right, boys! On our way!”

There was a rush for the door. Decorations were scattered
ruthlessly. Chairs were tossed aside. And where, but a moment
before, was a crowd of jostling, happy, overdressed cowpunchers, now
stood only Mrs. Manley, Belle, Ethel, Nell and Norine, looks of
anxiety on their faces. Even Gus Tripp had gone with the rest.

“Our evening dresses!” Ethel exclaimed mournfully. “We can say
good-bye to them, I guess!”

“You may get them back!” Belle insisted. “When dad goes after some
one he usually lands him; doesn’t he, Mother?”

Mrs. Manley did not reply. She stood twisting her handkerchief into
a tight knot. In her heart was a prayer that her two boys and her
husband would come through safely.

Outside, Teddy, Roy, and the others were running for the corral.

“Hold on! Wait a minute!” Mr. Manley called. “We can’t all go! Gus,
where in thunder do you think you’re bound for? Come back here! Want
to be in bed two days more?”

“Aw, please, boss!” Gus coaxed. “I’m all right, honest! I want to
get a crack at the guy who laid me up! Can’t I come, boss?”

“No!” Mr. Manley said with finality. “You’re too good a man to lose.
You get back into the house. Anyway, we have to keep some men here.
Teddy, Roy, Nick, Pop, Jim, Bug Eye an’ I will do the chasin’. The
rest of you punchers hang around here. Can’t tell but that Fr--I
mean the thieves who stole the flivver--may have done it to draw us
away from the X Bar X. We have to keep our heads up. They’re not
goin’ to pull off any more robberies if I can help it! Climb aboard
your broncs, boys, an’ let’s go! Nick, get a mount for Bug Eye.”

Without stopping to change their resplendent attire for something
more serviceable, the X Bar X punchers whom Mr. Manley had named
flung themselves on to their horses. White shirt fronts stuck out
grotesquely from vivid-colored vests. Green ties flaunted free in
the night wind. “City trousers” tickled the horses’ sides. Yet from
each belt hung a heavy revolver.

“Step on it!” Mr. Manley yelled as they swept out of the yard. “All
you’ve got, boys! Don’t waste any time! We’ll get those rustlers, or
know the reason why! No slip-ups this time!”