VII

RATTLERS


Mr. Manley and the others did not hear Teddy’s yell. They were a
good distance away and this, with the creaking of saddles, the
beating of the horses’ feet on the hard ground of the trail, and the
talk of what had just happened in Rimor’s Place, made it practically
impossible for them to hear the boy’s cry. Hence they continued up
the other trail, confident that Roy and Teddy were riding behind
them.

As the two boys dashed up the left fork, Teddy found himself
wishing, with a certain bitterness, that he had not given that yell.
Flash was just ahead. If Teddy had contained himself, it might have
been possible for him and Roy to have taken by surprise whoever was
riding the horses. Then he would have gotten Flash back. But now
there was only one thing to do--that was to ride! Ride after the
rustlers with all the skill and energy the two boys possessed.

There was no time for talk. Both boys bent low in their saddles and
with expert hands guided the ponies up the treacherous, winding
trail. The only sounds were the breathing of the broncos and the
monotonous drubbing of their feet on the ground. Now and then a pony
would toss his head, and flecks of foam would fly backward.
Desperately the boys urged the horses on. General, Flash, and Star
were just ahead! They _must_ catch them!

Roy groaned aloud when he thought of the sting of the quirt across
Star’s flank and the raking of the spurs as the rider above roweled
the pony in an effort to escape. Roy could almost see Star trembling
in surprised fright at this cruelty, his eyes misted with
reproachful agony. It would be the first time in his life he had
ever been beaten. Yet he would know it was not Roy on his back. He
would know it was a stranger who was sending those stabs of pain
through his body.

Roy clenched his teeth in a fury of determination. Up, up--to the
right of that rock there--now to the left--the path turned
here--up--up--harder--faster!

For a short space in front of them the trail lay open. Teddy shouted
something unintelligible, and Roy whipped his head around. Teddy was
motioning furiously, and, as Roy followed his brother’s gesture, he
saw General and his rider, who were in the rear of the other two
rustlers, leap off the trail and through the brush.

“Mark that spot!” Teddy panted. “We turn there!”

Roy sought to fasten his gaze on the place at the side of the path.
That bush,--that brown bush--he must keep his eyes on it! If they
lost it, Star would be lost too!

It is not easy to rivet one’s attention on a spot on the road while
guiding one’s pony up a tortuous mountain trail. Roy’s mount, free
of the hand which seemed to lift him over those leg-wrenching holes,
faltered, stumbled, and, like a deer stricken with a hunter’s
bullet, crashed headlong to the ground.

Automatically, Roy’s whole body relaxed as he flew through the air,
so that the shock would be distributed equally throughout his frame.
When he hit, his breath was jarred from him, but no bones were
broken.

Teddy almost pulled his pony over backward in his effort to stop. He
leaped swiftly from his horse and ran to his brother’s side.

“Roy! Roy!” he cried. “Are you hurt? Are you all right? Roy!”

“All right, Teddy,” Roy gasped weakly, struggling to his feet. “Just
a--a--fall. Wind’s gone.” He bent over for a moment, gasping for
breath. When he straightened up, the lines of pain had disappeared
from his face.

“Pretty lucky! Where’s that bronc? If his leg’s broken--” Then he
saw his pony standing in the underbrush, unhurt, but trembling
violently. Quickly he ran toward the steed and patted him gently.

“Snap into it, Teddy! We won’t give up yet! There’s still a chance!
We’ve got to find Star and Flash! And if we can bring back General
for dad--”

Without finishing his sentence, Roy vaulted into the saddle, and
once more the boys galloped up the mountain trail. Roy’s fall was
but an incident in the chase.

When they came to the spot where they thought the thieves had turned
off, Roy pulled his horse to a halt.