“Go ahead, Gus,” the cattle owner said tensely. “What else?”

“Well, I couldn’t let a chance like that slip by, so I made a jump
for the door an’ followed. The second I got inside, I seen my
mistake. Froud was leanin’ against the bar, gun out, starin’ my way.
We had a few words about them stolen horses, an’ all of a sudden
before I could make a move he blazed at me an’ put my arm out of
commish. I couldn’t do nothin’ then, crippled like that, except let
out a few of my opinions about Froud, but he only laughed an’ tole
me to bring my army next time. So I hopped back on Axlegrease an’
come home. Here’s yore mail.”

Reaching inside his shirt, Gus drew out several letters. He made as
though to hand them to Mr. Manley. Suddenly his body went limp. His
head dropped forward, and the envelopes fell from his nerveless
fingers. Roy leaped forward just in time to keep the cowboy from
pitching off the stool to the ground.

“The nervy fellow!” Teddy said slowly, looking first at the letters
and then at the still form of Gus. “Gets shot, goes to the
post-office for the mail, an’ rides twelve miles back home with his
arm still bleeding!” The boy looked at the unconscious man with open
admiration. Then, bending swiftly down, he seized the puncher’s
shoulders. “Where’ll we take him?” he asked of his father. “In
here?” motioning toward the cook-house.

“No, better take him to the house,” Mr. Manley suggested, looking at
Gus closely. “He’s out, cold! No wonder! Ridin’ twelve miles under
that sun with a hole ripped in his arm! He sure is a nervy boy!”

“I’ll tell a maverick!” Roy exploded. “Come on, Teddy, we’ll lift
him over to the house. Sing Lung, you run ahead and tell mother to
get a bed ready. And talk English, not Chinese.”

“Me fixee! Me fixee!” Sing Lung chattered, setting out on a run.

With Teddy at his shoulders and Roy at his feet, Gus was soon being
carried toward the ranch house. Mr. Manley walked alongside, holding
the injured arm so that it should not hang down.

Gus was soon resting quietly in a bed upstairs. Teddy telephoned for
the doctor, but Mrs. Manley took no chances of blood poisoning
setting in while waiting for the physician. She dressed the arm
herself, with swift, sure fingers. Later, when the medical man
arrived, he declared that no professional nurse could have done a
better job.

Leaving the cowboy resting quietly, Mr. Manley and his two sons
walked toward the corral.

“There’s one thing sure,” the rancher declared, “and this is that
Froud is the one who stole our broncs! And another thing--I have an
idea that he’s one of the gang of rustlers that have been operatin’
hereabouts. Bug Eye said he saw a scar-faced man ridin’ away from
the 8 X 8 the very day their cattle was stolen. And I’ll lay money
it was Froud!”

“Didn’t I tell you?” cried Teddy excitedly, turning to Roy. “Froud!
He’s in that gang sure as fate! And so is Checkered Shirt! I can’t
give you a reason for saying that, but I’ll bet it’s so, just the
same.”

Mr. Manley looked over at his son.

“You mean that bad egg who was standin’ outside Rimor’s the day
General an’ Flash an’ Star were rustled? The one I wanted to talk to
later? The chap who vamoosed?”

“That’s the one, Dad! Yes sir, he and Froud are together on these
shady deals, I’ll bet a gold mine!”

“Mebby,” Mr. Manley said slowly, “mebby.” He rested his foot against
the lower rail of the corral fence. “But we can’t do anything just
yet. Froud ain’t in town now, that’s sure. Wouldn’t do any good to
ride after him. What we’ve got to do, is to get him when he doesn’t
know we’re comin’. I don’t mind sayin’ I’ll have him for shootin’
Gus.”

Slow in speech, slow to declare what he intended to do, both Teddy
and Roy recognized fixed determination in their father’s tone.
Froud’s days of freedom were numbered. It might take time, but the
boys knew that Mr. Manley would never rest until he had placed Froud
behind bars--or put him permanently out of commission.

When the other punchers heard that Gus had been shot, they were loud
in their declarations of vengeance upon Froud. Gus was well liked by
all the boys on the X Bar X, and each puncher vowed:

“I’ll square it up for you, Gus!”