VIII

THE FALL


The woods echoed with the crack of the rifles as Roy and Teddy
opened fire on the rattlesnakes. The horses were prancing about in a
frenzy of fear, and it was almost impossible to take accurate aim,
but there were so many of the hissing creatures that this was not
necessary. The ground near the rock seemed literally covered with
the snakes, and a shot placed anywhere among them was nearly sure to
hit one.

“Blow their heads off!” Teddy was yelling. “Pulverize ’em!”

The boy had an intense hatred of rattlesnakes, like most Westerners,
and considered it a good deed to kill as many as possible.

The rifles were spitting lead as fast as the boys could pump bullets
into the chambers and pull the triggers. The earth in front of them
was beginning to resemble a butcher’s block. Torn bodies of the
snakes were everywhere.

“Don’t seem to know when they’ve had enough!” came from Teddy as he
pressed another clip into the rifle. “Golly, there must be a million
of ’em!”

The angry buzz of the reptiles increased in intensity as more and
more of the serpents issued forth from the cleft rock. The horses
were whinnying in terror, and it needed all the skill the boys
possessed to keep them from bolting. And, indeed, the sight of the
deadly, wicked-looking, triangular heads of the snakes was a
terrifying spectacle.

“There’s one less of ’em!” Roy cried, as he cut a large diamond-back
in half with a bullet.

“Atta boy!” Teddy answered. “If this bronc of mine would hold still
for a minute, I could get that big one near that tree!”

Roy looked to where his brother indicated and saw a huge snake lying
coiled with his head drawn back ready to strike. The boy raised his
rifle and took careful aim. Then a strange thing happened.

Almost more swiftly than the eye could follow, the snake uncoiled
and glided toward Roy’s horse. But, suddenly, it stopped, raised its
head, and for a moment stood perfectly still, directly in front of
the two boys. The sound of rattling stopped as a radio that has been
turned off. In surprise, Roy held his hand and did not take
advantage of the splendid target offered, it seemed purposely, by
the snake.

Teddy, however, was held in no such trance. Before him was a snake.
It was his duty to kill it. The boy raised the rifle to his shoulder
and squinted along the barrel. By almost a miracle, the horse
remained quiet.

Roy watched the scene in a detached way, almost as though he was
part of an audience of a staged drama. It was the moment of
breathless suspense before the crisis.

But this sense of unreality did not last long, for the silence was
shattered by the crack of Teddy’s gun. Roy looked down at the spot
where the snake had stopped, expecting to see it a mangled mass of
blood and skin. To his surprise, he saw the snake still in that
upraised, immobile position, as firm and steady as a rock. Teddy had
missed!

He had no opportunity to correct this mistake. The huge serpent
sounded his rattles just once. Then he swiftly lowered his head to
the ground, as though bowing farewell, and, like a streak of light,
was gone. And where, before, the ground had been alive with the
forms of writhing diamond-backs, there remained only the torn bodies
of those the boys had killed. The other snakes had gone with their
leader.

Teddy glanced at his brother, a sheepish look on his face.

“I missed him, clean!” he said, sliding the rifle back into its case
on the saddle. “Roy, I would have bet anything that I drew a perfect
bead in his head. I had him lined up just right when I squeezed the
trigger. I can’t understand it,” and Teddy shook his head.

“You missed, all right,” Roy answered, as though to himself. “He was
the king snake of that whole bunch! Wasn’t he a whopper, though?
Never saw such a big one! The way he stood there, with his head
raised looking right into your rifle barrel, he seemed
like--like--Ajax defying the lightning. You know, Teddy, I’m kind of
glad you did miss.”