XXI

NEWS FROM THE 8 X 8


The next morning Peter Ball sent a car for Nell and Ethel, and,
together with Bug Eye, the girls went back to the 8 X 8. Roy and
Teddy were sorry to see them go, as was Belle Ada, but they consoled
themselves with the thought that they could easily ride over to the
Ball ranch later and see them. It was arranged that Belle should go
on a visit to the 8 X 8 before the summer was over.

The business of ranching was taken up once more at the X Bar X,
although an undercurrent of vigilance seemed to be ever present.
Days of being without Star and Flash did not seem to console the
boys appreciably for their loss. Rather, as each day passed they
realized more and more keenly that Flash and Star had meant a great
deal to them. Mr. Manley, although he did not dwell on the
misfortune of losing General, as did Roy and Teddy over their
ponies, yet wished heartily that he had the bronco back.

Gus Tripp’s arm healed rapidly, and he was in the saddle again
within a week, looking, as he said, whiter than he had since he was
four years old. Otherwise he was little the worse for his
experience. Of course the arm was still bandaged but Gus said that
was only a reminder, “like you’d tie a string around yore finger,
so’s not to fergit somethin’.” When asked what it was that he wanted
to remember, he answered vaguely that it had something to do with
rattlesnakes.

Several times Nick and Pop had ridden into Eagles, watching for
Checkered Shirt, but the man seemed to have left that part of the
country. No one in town had seen him for a week. The barkeeper at
Rimor’s had likewise disappeared for the time being.

One morning Roy and Teddy determined to go fishing. The day was just
right for the sport, cloudy, and they had hopes of bringing home a
mess of mountain trout. By common consent, the boys agreed to ride
to Harver’s Gully and cast along that part of Rock Run River which
flowed by the spot.

Having arrived at the gully, the two boys rode slowly through the
grove of quakermasts where Roy had been held captive. Then they
mounted the hill on the other side and looked sharply about them.

“Don’t see much of importance, do you?” Teddy queried.

“Not much. Guess I was mistaken. But it looked queer, I’ll tell a
maverick! I thought sure we’d find something hereabouts.”

“After all, it was only a hunch,” Teddy stated. “Most of the time
they go wrong. Come on, let’s give the fish a whirl. Pop said
they’re running fine.”

Riding down the incline, the boys came once more to the river. At
this time of year it was a sizable stream, the snow on the
mountains, having melted and run down, had swelled it to almost a
flood stage. The water hissed merrily against the lines as Teddy and
Roy cast.

For some minutes neither got a strike. Then Roy, who was up-stream
from his brother, suddenly saw his line go taut.

“Strike!” he called out, and Teddy, abandoning his own casting, ran
toward Roy.

“Feels like a whale!” the boy sang out. “Hand me that net, Ted!”

There was haste to oblige, and Roy played his fish carefully. The
trout seemed not unused to the ways of anglers, for it did not dash
aimlessly about, but with short, purposeful spurts prevented the
young rancher from taking in much line.

“Looks as if you were in for a fight!” Teddy exclaimed, watching
with interest the contest between his brother and the fish. “He’s no
amateur at this business, that trout! He knows his stuff!”

“I’ll tell a maverick he does!” Roy said, breathing hard. “Golly, he
must weigh a ton! He’s _some_ scrapper!”

Suddenly the line swayed down, hanging loosely.

“Now’s your chance!” Teddy shouted. “Reel in! Reel in!”

Roy needed no such advice, for he was reeling in as fast as he
could. Then, with a slight twang, the line tightened. Roy was still
taking in slack when it happened, and he could not stop in time.
There was a quick jerk, and the frayed end of the cord dangled from
the tip of the rod. The fish had won.