III

An Angry Visitor


“What do you reckon is up, Teddy?” asked Roy Manley.

“Haven’t the least idea, but we’ll soon find out!”

The two urged their mounts forward anxiously.

Digressing here, for a moment, it will be recalled that these two
youths were first introduced in a book called “The X Bar X Boys on
the Ranch,” the opening volume of this series. Therein was told of
the long and dangerous hunt they, in company with their father and
other members of the outfit, had undertaken to round-up a gang of
rustlers who had stolen Flash, Star, and General, the ponies of
Teddy, Roy, and Mr. Manley.

The boys felt keenly the loss of their ponies, and braved many
dangers before regaining them. The fact that the Manley posse caught
the rustlers when they were about to make a raid on the cattle of X
Bar X added not a little to the excitement.

In the second book, called “The X Bar X Boys in Thunder Canyon,” the
adventures of Teddy and Roy on the trail of kidnappers are related.
These scoundrels, in revenge for a wrong they fancied Mr. Manley had
done them, took Belle Ada, the boys’ sister, and Nell Willis and
Ethel Carew, her friends, to a cavern far up Thunder Canyon. Guarded
there by an old woman and a number of men, the girls had a
terrifying time until Roy and Teddy found them and brought them
safely home after rounding up the kidnappers, who turned out to be
the same gang that had made trouble at the X Bar X Ranch before.

The voice of the man who was quarreling with their father in the
ranch yard was not an unfamiliar one to the Manley boys. Teddy, who
was leading, reined up sharply and jerked his head in the direction
from which the words were coming.

“Jake Trummer,” he said shortly. “Seems to be getting a load off his
chest. Wonder what the row is about.”

“Plenty, from the noise,” Roy answered. “He’s sure laying it into
dad. Let’s investigate.”

As the boys were intimately concerned with the running of the X Bar
X, their decision to learn the cause of the argument was not an
intrusion. They knew their father wished them to know anything that
concerned the ranch. So, chirping gently to their ponies, they rode
around the bunk-house and came in sight of the speaker.

Jake Trummer had his back to them as they trotted up.

“You heard what I said, Bard Manley,” he was thundering. “I ain’t
got no time for foolin’ around. Either you take yore cattle off my
ranges, or, by gosh, I’ll drive ’em off, an’ none too gentle,
either! You hear me!”

“Can’t help it, not bein’ deaf,” Mr. Manley returned. “You make a
noise like a steam calliope, Jake, only not so pleasant. But you use
the same kind of power--hot air. Now listen. Just as fast as I can,
I’ll--hello boys!” their father suddenly broke off. “You’re just in
time. Jake, here, was tellin’ me a nice little story about a bad
wolf; wasn’t it, Jake?”

“We heard some of it,” Roy said, with a grin, and dismounted.
“What’s the matter, Mr. Trummer?”

“Matter enough! And if you think it’s a nice story, you’ll learn
different, Bard Manley! You get yore cattle off my ranges, an’
quick! You know the grass down by Whirlpool River is the best
grazin’ in the state, an’ you know I only got a certain amount of
it. Hardly enough for my own stock. Then you let yore cows go
roamin’ all around creation an’--”

“Do you mean that our cattle are using your grass?” Teddy asked,
sliding from his horse. “If that’s so, we’ll try to get them off as
quickly as possible.” He turned to his father. “I’m sorry about
that, Dad. I had Nick an’ Gus riding this week. They didn’t do their
job very well, I guess. Wait a minute, Mr. Trummer, and we’ll get
the straight of this. Hey, Nick!” The boy raised his voice in a
shout. “Nick around? Come over here--pronto!”

“Take it easy,” Mr. Manley said suddenly. “Never mind it, Nick!” he
called. And as a young puncher appeared from around the bunk-house
the “boss” waved a hand. “Trot back. If we want you we’ll yell
again.”

Nick Looker, with a puzzled look on his face, obeyed slowly. Mr.
Manley turned again to Jake Trummer.