II

The Brainy Beastie


Scuffling rocks down the slope of the mountain in his haste to join
his comrade, the second bear approached the ledge. Teddy and Roy
knew that the new arrival could not come at them from the side, as
the corners of the shelf tapered into the straight wall.

Yet this fact was paramount in the minds of the boys--that two bears
were one more bear than one bear.

“Come, join the party,” Teddy said bitterly, as he watched the
scrambling approach of the second beast. “The more the merrier. Roy,
just tell François to lay another place, will you?”

Roy did not reply, but once more leaned over the edge of the
projection. The animal they had first encountered had ceased his
ineffectual attempts to reach the shelf, and was calmly awaiting the
arrival of his mate.

“The uninvited guest,” Teddy continued, eyeing the oncoming bear
with a malevolent stare. “Well, there’s always room for one more. We
strive to please.” He raised his voice to a shout. “Hey, _amigo_,
would you mind bringing that rifle with you as you come by? There’s
something in it I want to give you. What? Oh, all right. If you want
to be nasty about it. The next time I--”

“Teddy, put a buck-strap on that lower lip of yours,” Roy
interrupted. “I have an idea.”

“Has it got something to do with us leaving here before winter sets
in? Because if it has, let’s hear it.”

Without speaking, Roy nodded his head, then proceeded to search his
pockets diligently. At length he brought to light a fishline with a
hook attached, imbedded in a small cork. He held the line up with a
triumphant smile.

Teddy looked at it for a moment. Then a grin came over his face.

“Fine!” he cried joyfully. “Just the thing. I haven’t been fishing
for some time, and it’s well nigh on to three weeks since I fished
for bear. I’m kind of out of practice. Let’s see now. What is it you
use for bait? Oh, yes, I remember now. You tie the end of the line
to a tree, put yourself on the hook, and jump overboard. When the
bear nibbles you yell, ‘I’ve got him!’ That is, if you can. Then the
bear laughs and says, ‘Oh, no, quite the contrary, I assure you,’
and by that time--”

“Save it, and write a joke book,” Roy retorted. “Now control your
well known faculty for humor for a moment and pay attention. What’s
that down there?” He pointed, and Teddy stared.

“That? Well, it _looks_ like the rifle you so obligingly dropped. Of
course, I can’t be sure, for we’re not sure of anything in this
world. But I _think_ it is.”

“Strangely enough, you’re right. Now my idea is this: I’ll tie a
weight to this line about a foot below the hook. Make a cast. Catch
the hook in the rifle. Draw up said rifle. Shoot said bear and his
little friend. Then go home and eat.”

Teddy gazed silently at his brother. His mouth opened wide. A fixed
look came into his eyes. Then, gasping for breath, he put out his
hand gropingly, as though to steady himself.

“I’m not well,” he said thickly, “and I want to go home. It must be
those cucumbers we had for lunch. Never again, as long as I live,
will I eat cucumbers. Why, Roy, do you know what I thought you said?
I thought--”

“Suffering tripe, can’t you be serious for a _minute_?” Roy burst
out. “I tell you my scheme will work. It’s the only chance we have.
Look--the other bear has arrived. Hear ’em talking to each other?
Suppose they’re able to boost themselves up here? ’Course I don’t say
they _could_--it’s pretty high, thank goodness. But if they did?
Where would we be then? Now you watch. I’m going to try it. Here she
goes.”

Teddy settled himself in a sitting position on the ledge with his
back to the wall, so that he was out of sight of the bears below. He
waved his hand grandly.

“You may fire when ready, Gridley!” he quoted.

Roy carefully judged the distance from the ledge to the spot where
the gun lay, estimating the length of line he would have to use. By
this time the two bears were in close conference. Deep rumblings of
bear talk came to the boys on the ledge, and finally one
heavy-throated, decisive grunt.