“All right, Dad--if you say so,” Teddy said through clenched teeth.
“But I’ll remember that bird! I’ll remember him!” It was difficult
for the boy to hold himself in check. He could not trust himself to
say more.

Roy hurried over to his brother.

“Come on, Teddy. Let’s go,” he said evenly. “Maybe Foley can tell us
something about the ponies.”

At that moment the ticket agent came hurriedly across the street.

“Somethin’ wrong, Bardwell?” he asked Mr. Manley. “Thought I heard
your voice takin’ a work-out.”

“You did,” Mr. Manley answered grimly. “Our hosses are gone.”

“Sho!” Foley looked across to the hitching rail. “By golly, they
are! I was outside and saw Teddy and Roy tie ’em up there, too! Now
that’s right queer. Where you suppose they went?”

“They didn’t _go_ no place, Hank! They were stolen!”

“Sho! You don’t say! Stolen!” Foley gave a long whistle, and,
removing his hat, scratched the bald spot on the top of his head.
“Mighty queer how they could be stolen with so many people around.
You ask anybody if they saw ’em?”

Mr. Manley gave a short laugh.

“I just had a sweet bit o’ conversation with one of your choice
characters,” he said. “Puncher that was standin’ right here all the
time an’ must have seen the broncs taken. He told us to go chase our
own hosses.”

“What did he look like?” Foley asked in an interested tone.

“Tall, kind of stringy looking,” Teddy answered quickly. “Squint
eyes. Checkered wool shirt. No vest. He’s inside Rimor’s now.”

The ticket agent nodded sagely.

“I know the waddy. Came to town about three days ago. Don’t know
where he sleeps, but he spends most of his time hanging around Duck
Rimor’s.”

Teddy nodded.

“Stranger here. From up around Montana, most likely. So he was
nasty, hey?”

“He wasn’t any too polite, from what I saw,” Roy broke in.

Mr. Manley looked over at Teddy. The boy was staring intently at the
door through which the puncher had disappeared.

“We have got to get busy,” the cattle owner said in a loud voice. Of
a sudden his face darkened. Deliberately he tapped the tobacco out
from his pipe by knocking the bowl against the palm of his hand.
Then he placed the pipe in his pocket.

“We have got to get busy,” he repeated in a quieter tone, “an’
quick. General has been stolen. Flash an’ Star along with him. We’re
goin’ after the man that took ’em an’ get our hosses back.” He
turned and walked swiftly to the other side of the street, where the
two girls had been silently watching the scene.

“I’m thinking that whoever stole your dad’s hoss made a poor
bargain,” Foley said to Roy. “I know Bardwell. I saw him look like
that before, when back in ninety-eight Slag Wallace shot a dog your
dad owned. Slag ain’t around now. Yep, the waddy who picked up
General is going to be mighty sorry.”

Roy and Teddy followed their father without a word, leaving Foley
standing in the street, rubbing his bald spot with a puzzled air.

Nell Willis and Ethel Carew were waiting, eyes full of questions.
Nell started the attack.

“Did that cowman want to fight?” she asked, gazing full at Roy. “He
seemed awfully mean. Maybe he didn’t like to have us standing here
watching. But I simply couldn’t leave; could you, Ethel? It was so
thrilling! Did he have a gun? I didn’t see one. Why didn’t he answer
your questions about the horses?”

“He had his reasons, I guess,” Roy answered a trifle shortly. Star
was gone, and here he stood listening to a lot of chatter. Still,
Nell was pretty! Maybe she had got scared when that puncher started
to act up. Roy’s eyes softened, and he looked at the girl with a new
interest. Probably she didn’t know much about the West. Why, her
face wasn’t even a little bit tanned! She seemed pale, even! Maybe
she _was_ scared!