XX

THE DECISION


Roy’s breakfast was flavored with the tale of his moonlight ride to
Harver’s Gully. Between bites he told the story of his meeting with
Froud and of the rustler’s strange insistence that he did not know
Checkered Shirt.

“You say Froud wasn’t riding one of our horses?” Teddy asked.

“No. He was sitting on a bronc I never saw before. One of his own,
or maybe one he rustled from another outfit. Somehow, he seemed
puzzled after he had me covered, as if he didn’t know what to do
with me. Took him a mighty long time to decide to bring me to
Harver’s Gully.”

Neither Mr. Manley nor Teddy had yet taken to their beds, having
reached the X Bar X but an hour before Roy. All night they had spent
in looking for the missing youth, and at last they had decided he
might have returned home. They were about to start on another search
when Roy rode into the yard.

“Say, Dad, did you find that flivver?” Roy asked, leaning back in
his chair with a satisfied sigh. A strip of adhesive tape marked the
spot where the bullet had torn his ear.

“We did,” the ranchman stated. “Teddy marked it in a ditch. Wasn’t
hardly worth sweepin’ up. They’d stripped it clean and smashed the
motor to pieces with a wrench. Bug Eye was seein’ red. He could
hardly talk. By golly, if the same gang is doin’ all this dirty
work, they’ve got an awful lot to settle for!”

“I’ll tell a maverick they have!” Roy declared hotly. “And they’ll
settle, too! Froud made a mistake when he brought me over to
Harver’s Gully. I’ve got an idea that the gang’s headquarters is
around there some place. Teddy, you and I will have to take a ride
over there soon. It’s right on a deep part of the river, you know,
and we might get a few fish--though the kind of fish I’d like to get
can’t be caught with a hook and line.”

It was eight o’clock before Roy threw himself upon his bed and gave
himself over to the blissful luxury of complete relaxation. The
others who had joined in the chase, including of course Mr. Manley
and Teddy, were likewise catching up on some sleep. At twelve
o’clock the ranch yard presented a strangely deserted appearance.
When usually the cowboys would be yelling loudly for Sing Lung to
hurry up with that grub, now from the bunk-house sounded only the
snores of punchers sunk deep in slumber. Those who had not gone on
the night ride stayed as silent as possible, out of respect for
their fatigued brothers. But it would have taken a salvo of
twenty-one guns to awaken those buckers.

At four o’clock Roy opened his eyes full upon a beam of sunlight
that shot through his window and played upon his face. Automatically
he turned upon his side, then saw that in the bed across from him
Teddy still slept peacefully. Reaching over, Roy gently raised the
window shade, so that the sun now shone upon Teddy. The boy moved
restlessly, threw his hand over his eyes, then turned and saw his
brother grinning at him.

“What time?” he asked in a monotone.

“Six-thirty! You going to sleep all day? I’ve been up hours. Had
lunch and went for a ride with Curly.”

“Curly? You mean Nell?”

“No, I mean Ethel. Why?”

“Oh, nothing.” Then, when he saw the grin on his brother’s face,
Teddy turned to the wall with a snort of disgust.

“Don’t be silly! You just woke up yourself. Six-thirty! Humph! I’ll
bet it’s about twelve o’clock. Well--” as he looked at a watch on
the chair beside him--“it’s only a little after four, anyway. I knew
you were kidding.”

“Yes, you did! I noticed that as soon as I said I’d been riding with
Curly. But say, we’d better get up.”

“Wait a minute. I want to ask you a few questions about Froud, Roy.
You say he got sore when you mentioned Checkered Shirt?”

“I’ll tell a maverick he did! There’s something up between those
two. I wish we could come across that hombre in the cross-word
puzzle laundry-piece!”

“He probably’s got another by now. Even rustlers have got to change
their shirts once in a while. But, seriously, what made you think
that Harver’s Gully is headquarters for Froud’s gang?”