XV

A Vain Search


When Teddy felt the dark waters close over his head, his first
thought was that now, after their long journey, they were to fail.
He did not fear for his own safety, unless it was that his absence
would cause his father and mother worry. The rushing current swept
him out of reach of the rock which had been their Scylla, and, in
one vivid flash, Teddy saw Roy clinging to its ebony sides with arms
that seemed almost lifeless.

“Hang on, Roy!” Teddy gasped, and then he was borne out of hearing.
Weighted down as he was by heavy clothes, Teddy had hard work
keeping his head above the water long enough to take a full breath
before being forced below the surface again. Luckily, there were no
sharp-pointed rocks in his path.

With desperation, Teddy struck out for the shore he saw looming in
front of him. But it was impossible to make much headway against the
fierce current that pulled him onward and tumbled him over like a
basket in a waterfall. Finally, exhausted by his struggles, he
contented himself with keeping afloat, and was promptly spilled upon
the bank.

So surprising was the transition from water to land that, for a
moment, the boy could not realize it. One second he had been
floating down a darkened, turbulent stream and the next he was
tossed upon the shore, his breath almost driven from his body by the
suddenness of it.

“The--ole river--is full of tricks!” he gasped, and sat up.
“Good-bye, canoe! I’ll bet there’s a hole in her big enough to drive
a steer through!” He cleared the water from his eyes, pulled himself
farther from the edge, and peered into the night.

“Roy!” he yelled. “Where are you? Hey, Roy!”

For a long moment he waited, then fear stole darkly upon him.
Breathing quickly, he shouted once more.

When there was no answer to this hail, he sprang to his feet and
started to run back along the bank, calling as he ran. He saw that
he had landed on the same shore they had put out from, and hoped
that his brother might have done the same and perhaps have started
back for their camp. But this hope was dispelled when Teddy came
upon two bedraggled and forlorn wanderers--Bug Eye and Pop. They
were staggering around aimlessly, now and then letting out a weak
call for Teddy and Roy.

“Did you see Roy?” Teddy asked them anxiously, as he ran up,
breathless.

“Teddy!” Pop gasped. “Yo’re safe! Boy, I was afraid! Where’s Roy?”

“I don’t know!” Teddy answered frantically. “I thought he might have
come ashore with you! Didn’t you see him?”

“Not--not me!” Bug Eye stuttered, shivering and resting one hand
against a tree to steady himself. “I thought--”

“Never mind about that!” Teddy cried tensely, fully aroused now to
the dangers of the situation. “We’ve got to hunt for him! Bug Eye,
you go downstream! Pop, you come with me!”

“I seen him hanging on to that rock we hit,” Pop declared, craning
his neck forward and seeking to pierce the blackness. To add to
their troubles the moon had disappeared behind clouds and the night
was as dark as pitch.

“I saw that, too!” Teddy exclaimed, opening and closing his hands.
“You two--for heaven’s sake don’t stand there gaping! Roy is
lost--maybe--”

“Now, maybe nothin’,” Pop Burns interrupted. “If you want to help
him most, Teddy, just take it easy an’ don’t waste none of yore
energy in boilin’ over. We’ll find Roy all right. He just came
ashore at another place.”

“I sure hope so!” Teddy breathed. “It’s so blamed dark here! The
moon is gone--we haven’t a dog’s chance of seeing him. But we can
yell.” He raised his voice once more in a shout. “Roy! Yay-y-y,
Roy!”

“That won’t do no good,” Pop said gently. “We got to hunt. He may be
hurt, an’ lyin’ on the shore somewheres. We’ll get him, sure, when
daylight comes.”

“We’ll get him before that!” Teddy said determinedly, and started to
run along the bank.