XI

A Night in the Woods


“To the shore, Pop!” Roy yelled, realizing that The Pup had seen
them and it would be useless to hope to catch him unawares. “Wait,
Teddy--” He saw that the boy had drawn his gun and that his eyes
were blazing. “Don’t shoot! You may hit the horse! And, anyway, we
don’t want to kill the skunk! We want to capture him, if we can.”

Unfortunately their craft was almost directly in the middle of the
stream, some two hundred feet from the shore. The figure on
horseback had disappeared, but Roy hoped that, due to the tangle of
brush, Marino might not be able to retreat before they could land.
Pop set his teeth and leaned on his paddle, and Teddy did the same.
But they were not working together, and the boat started to swing
crazily.

“Wait till I get in with you, Pop!” Teddy gasped. “This blame
current! It sure is strong!”

Gradually the canoe neared the shore. But by that time all four
realized that their attempt was doomed to failure. The Pup had
surely seen them and had got away.

“I guess we lose,” Roy sighed, while he mopped his face with his
handkerchief, for Teddy’s efforts had splashed him considerably.
“Let up, boys. No use to land now. Besides, those rocks would make
hash of the boat.” He pointed to some sharp-edged boulders along the
bank. “No soap. What a fine time to be in the middle of a river! Bet
The Pup is snickering up his sleeve by this time. It’s a wonder he
didn’t wave good-bye at us,” and Roy laughed bitterly.

“Merry Christmas!” Bug Eye remarked, and looked about him comically.
“I am still among those present. Now, if it ain’t too much trouble,
will you kindly explain this muddle to a poor man what ain’t got his
right health?”

“Do you mean to say you didn’t see him?” Teddy asked in amazement.

“Who? The Pup? I seen nobody, an’ very little of him. I was sittin’
here peaceful-like, maybe dozin’ a bit, as boys will do, when all of
a sudden I hears a yell, gets a free shower bath, an’ wakes up to
see Teddy an’ Pop paddlin’ like a couple of crazy men. Then I hears
some one say ‘The Pup,’ an’ I looks, but don’t see a soul. Now, I
ask you: what happened?”

“Why, we saw Joe Marino!” Roy exclaimed excitedly. “And he was on
the horse he stole from our corral! I spotted him first, and tipped
off Teddy. We tried to make the shore, but the current was too
swift. So I guess he’s plenty far by this time. What a break!”

“Yo’re sure it was him?” Bug Eye asked curiously.

“Positive!” Teddy declared. “I saw him as plain as I see you now. He
was on our bronc, facing the river. Probably just watered the horse.
Then, when he saw us he turned and beat it--disappeared like a
shadow. Pop, you saw him, didn’t you?”

The old puncher nodded forcibly.

“Sure did,” he agreed. “But I was too blame busy to say anything. I
had all I could do to try an’ keep this fool boat straight, an’ I
didn’t make out so well at that. We’re a bunch of dubs, I reckon,”
he admitted reluctantly.

“Well, if yo’re sure you saw him, why don’t you land an’ have a
look?” Bug Eye inquired eagerly.

Teddy snorted.

“What for? Just to see the scenery? Marino is gone by now. We
haven’t as much of a chance as a fish on a desert of finding him.”

“Let’s see! Ain’t that what some one said a while ago?” came from
Bug Eye. “Seems to me I heard a voice say he would try fer the
Border, an’ that this part of the country would see him no more,”
and he looked quizzically at Pop.

“Dry up,” Pop said succinctly. “We all make mistakes. But if you
want to, Roy, we’ll land an’ take a look. Think it would do any
good?”

“Not a bit,” Roy decided. “We’d only waste our time. I wonder if
that waddy could have been following us?”

“Hardly, if he didn’t know we were here,” Teddy replied. “And it’s a
cinch we surprised him, because he ducked like a scared rabbit.
Nope, we just happened to run across him, that’s all. If we had only
been on land!”