“Did Froud beat the pony?” Teddy asked, his eyes gleaming with a
strange light. “Did he?”

“Started to. I seen him, an’ made him quit. Guess he got sore at me
then, an’ decided to do me an’ keep the cattle we rustled fer
himself!”

Teddy looked at the man sympathetically.

“You wouldn’t let him whip Flash? I’ll remember that. Go ahead. Tell
us where our ponies are.”

“Will you let me go if I do?” the man asked cunningly.

Roy glanced at his brother. Teddy knew what was in Roy’s mind, for
it was in his own, too. They could get Flash, Star, and General
back. Also, they might recapture the cattle stolen from the 8 X 8.
If they could get Froud, too, and jail him, together with the other
rustlers, the country would be rid of a band of rascals.

On the other hand, here was the man who had confessed that he was
the ringleader. If they let him go, he might start another gang and
create more disturbance.

“Will you promise to give up horse stealing if we do?” Roy demanded.

The man looked up. His eyes seemed strangely as though they were
laughing, but his mouth never moved.

“Now, wait a second, buddy. You don’t know what yore askin’. Me, I
been a rustler fer years, an’ I don’t know nothin’ else. I can copy
any brandin’ iron an’ I can work a brand over into another so you’d
never know the difference. There ain’t nobody who can do that as
well as me, if I do say it myself. Me, I ain’t a hoss thief. I’m a
brand-iron artist.” He grinned widely. “But I’ll tell you what. You
let me go, an’ I’ll tell you where yore broncs are and where all the
cattle we stole from this section is hidden. An’ then I’ll
promise--an’ I ain’t never went back on my word yet--that I’ll leave
this state an’ never come back.”

Roy stared him straight in the eyes. They stared back, unwavering,
sincere.

“I believe you,” the boy declared. “Spill it. You go free.”

A broad smile came over the man’s face. He thrust out his hand, and
the boys grasped it in turn.

“Listen,” he said eagerly, “an’ listen good. Froud is plannin’ to
raid yore father’s herd tonight. He’s goin’ to cut the fence on the
north side an’ get as many Durhams as he can an’ drive ’em to
Cottonwood Bowl, over near Harver’s Gully. That’s where yore broncs
are. I was supposed to be in on this, ’cause I planned it. But he’ll
go through with it all right. I know him. He’s money-mad! He held up
a flivver the other night just ’cause he thought it was carryin’
jewelry. I didn’t want to have nothin’ to do with it, but I rode
along to see there wouldn’t be no unnecessary shootin’. I ain’t no
sneak thief--nor a murderer, neither. Maybe you know about the
flivver? From the 8 X 8, it was.”

Both boys nodded.

“Go ahead!” Teddy exclaimed. “Just where is this Cottonwood Bowl?”

The man chuckled.

“You’d never find it in a million years if you didn’t know where to
look,” Checkered Shirt went on. “I discovered it, an’ you couldn’t
get a better place fer hidin’ cattle if you tried. First you head
fer Harver’s Gully. You know where that is, hey? Well, there’s a
hill on the other side. Don’t go up that. Foller the river to the
left, and you’ll come to a big rock. Climb that. Then you’ll see
soon enough where the Bowl is. Baby, it’s sweet, sweet!”

“An’ you’ll find yore broncs with the short-horns from the 8 X 8.
The brand ain’t been changed yet. The way I work, I make an iron
just like the original. Then I teases the letters into somethin’
else till even the owner wouldn’t know his own brand. But I got to
have the original exact to do it. That’s why I asked you if--”

“Yes, but we haven’t time! What else about that raid on our ranch?”
Teddy interrupted.

“It’s tonight, like I told you! On the north side of the fence!
An’, boys, I hope you get Froud! Go to it!”

Teddy straightened up.

“Roy, here’s our chance to get our horses back and capture Froud!
We’ve got to get to dad! You--er--”