“He had a right to!” Roy cried angrily. “You were mistreating Flash,
and you know it! Dad didn’t want a man of your type about the
place.”

“Oh, he didn’t, hey?” Froud growled. An ugly frown came to his face.
“He’s pretty pertic’lar, ain’t he? That bronc of yore brother’s
needed a good lickin’, and I was givin’ it to him. I was
interrupted. But since then I--” he stopped suddenly.

“You finished it, you mean!” Roy exclaimed, his fists clenched.
“Froud, if you’ll drop that gun I’ll have it out with you right
here!”

“Nice little hero!” Froud sneered. “College boy wants to fight bold
bad man, does he? G’wan, you little rat! I could break you in two!
Now shut up! I don’t know where your broncs are, an’ that’s the end
of that! You can see I ain’t ridin’ Flash, or either of the other
two. This is my own hoss. Satisfied?”

“I’ll have to be, I guess,” the boy said in a low voice.

“Now yore talkin’ sense! Say, how many of yore crowd is ridin’
tonight?”

“Seven.”

“Seven, hey! I reckon you’d better come with me. It’ll be morning
soon; then you can ride back. If I turn you loose now, yore liable
to get to the rest. Not that I’ve got anything to be afraid of!” the
man added quickly. “But that brother of yours is hot-headed, and I
wouldn’t put it past him to take a pot shot at me fer what I done to
Flash. So come along.”

“Where?”

“See that clump of quakermasts over yonder? Head fer them.”

Against his will, Roy was forced to ride forward, while Froud
trailed him closely, gun still in readiness. A faint glimmer of gray
appeared in the east, betokening the coming dawn.

Froud knew he must put much territory between him and his pursuers
before daylight, so he urged the horses on to a faster gait. Roy
rode silently, hoping that his chance might come before he got too
far away from the others to give the alarm. But as the two rode
along, this hope dwindled, and the boy knew that, even if he did
escape, he would not be able to reach the others in time to give
chase to Froud.

Angry thoughts were milling in the boy’s mind as they neared the
group of quakermasts. Turning his head slightly, Roy saw that they
had reached a section of the country known as Harver’s Gully. The
light in the east was stronger now, and Roy could make out the Rocky
Run River a few miles to the north. Further up the stream was the X
Bar X, but if one followed the course of Rocky Run, winding as it
did, it would require a ride of some three or four hours to reach
the Manley ranch.

Roy knew that a steep hill arose beyond these trees. He wondered if
Froud would make for this, but the next moment his captor ordered
him to pull his horse up.

“We’re stayin’ here a spell,” Froud said shortly. He rode closer to
Roy. “So you think I travel with a man who wears a checkered shirt,
hey?”

Startled by this question, apparently coming from a clear sky, Roy
did not reply for a moment.

“Answer me!” growled Froud. He thrust his left hand out and seized
the boy by the throat.

Like a flash, Roy realized his intention. For reasons of his own,
Froud wanted Roy out of the way. If he could get him to draw, he
could kill him in cold blood, and then say that he shot in
self-defense. The fact that Roy had his gun in his hand would
corroborate his story.

With anger surging within him at the cowardly trick, Roy sat
perfectly still. Froud wound his fingers about the boy’s throat and,
with a sneering laugh, made as if to choke him. Then with a grunt as
if of contempt he took his hand away.

“You’re not worth it,” he snarled. “You an’ that sissy brother of
yores ought to be travelin’ with a nurse!”

He looked keenly at Roy, but the young rancher did not reply. He
stared long and steadily back at Froud.

“So you know Checkered Shirt, hey?” the rustler mused. “Well, I
don’t! I never saw him in my life! Get that? I don’t know who he
is!” Realizing that, by this very denial, forcible as it was, he
admitted the thing he was repudiating, Froud stopped.