At one o’clock the boys heard a tapping on their door. Opening it
quickly, they found their mother standing there.

“I wondered if you were asleep,” she said, with a little smile.
“Now, this won’t do at all. We can’t have you wasting your strength,
you know. Come down to the kitchen with me, and I’ll make some
cocoa. Then you’re going to take off your things and get in
bed--even if I have to tuck you in as I used to, not so long ago. In
the morning you have to take Belle over to the 8 X 8, and, after
that, there’ll be plenty of work to do. So you need all the rest you
can get. Come now, we’ll get the cocoa made, then it’s to bed with
both of you!”

“But don’t you want us to wait up for dad, Mother?”

“No, Roy. When he comes I’ll call you. You must get your sleep. My,
listen to that wind!”

After a warming drink, Teddy and Roy, in obedience to their mother’s
laughing orders, hopped into bed. Both declared that they wouldn’t
sleep a wink, but, somehow, they could not keep their eyes open, and
two o’clock found them deep in slumber. Mrs. Manley it was who
watched at the window for the returning horsemen, her hands clasped
tightly.

The day was three hours old when Teddy and Roy opened their eyes.
Roy was the first one out of bed, and, practically throwing his
clothes on, he made for the door. Teddy was a close second, and they
descended the stairs together.

Their mother was waiting in the dining room. She put her finger to
her lips and said in a low voice:

“Don’t make too much noise, boys. Your father is asleep right above.
He came in at five o’clock.”

“Did he--did he--” Teddy began tensely.

Mrs. Manley shook her head.

“No luck, boys. He wants you to take Belle over to Peter Ball’s
place as soon as you can and to hurry back. I wish she would wait
until this business is over. Still, I won’t be foolish and start to
worry. She is so eager to visit Nell and Ethel that I haven’t the
heart to say she can’t. There is not a great deal of opportunity for
social life out here. Anyway, I want her to become well acquainted
with the two girls, for she may go to New York next winter and
she’ll be happier if she has friends there. When do you want to
start?”

“As soon as Belle can, Mother,” Boy answered. “Dad is all right,
then?”

“Just tired. He could hardly keep his eyes open, poor man. And he’s
doing all this to help a friend, too!”

“Dad would do more for a friend than he would for himself,” Roy said
softly. “Golly, I hope we catch those rustlers! Boy, how I hope it!
Teddy, can’t you feel old Flash under you once more? And Star! Come
on, Ted, let’s hurry so we can get back soon! Mom, how soon before
Belle will be ready?”

Mrs. Manley smiled at her son. It was like him to think more of
getting his horse back than of capturing the rustlers--the mother
knew the great affection that existed between Roy and Star and
between Teddy and Flash. Yet, when she thought of the dangers of the
chase, her face sobered. Still she did not forbid them to go. She
knew that her boys must learn to be men.

The two brothers and their sister were soon ready to start.
Cautioning them to be careful, Mrs. Manley kissed them good-bye.
They were going on horse back, Belle having her own favorite pony
which she could not think of leaving behind.

As they set out, Teddy looked up at the sky.

“More rain,” he remarked thoughtfully. “Makes trailing that much
harder. Belle, were you up when dad came in?”

“No. But I heard him. He said the men never got a glimpse of the
thieves. Then he said something about Harver’s Gully, but I didn’t
quite catch that.”

“He did?” Roy asked excitedly. “What was it, Belle? Think!”

“I didn’t hear it all, Roy, because he shut the door just then.”

“I wonder if they rode over that way!” Teddy exclaimed. “Roy, the
more I think of that man we saw, the more I’m sure it was Froud!”