II

A DISHEARTENING LOSS


Clucking to their horses, the Manley boys proceeded toward Eagles.
The road led downward now, and the going was easier.

“Speaking of the 8 X 8, did you hear what happened there?” Teddy
asked, as he pulled gently on General’s leading rein.

“Yep! Twenty head of short-horn Durhams stolen; wasn’t it? Pete
ought to put better men to riding his cattle.”

“Now, I don’t know,” Teddy replied slowly. “They’ve got some good
punchers over on the 8 X 8. Way I figure it, those rustlers are
mighty clever. They ride into a herd at night, cut out as many head
as they can handle, and drive ’em away before the riders can get to
them. But, by jinks, they’d better not try to get away with any of
the X Bar X cattle! They’ll have one sweet fight on their hands if
they do;” Teddy looked down at the side of his saddle where the
insignia X--X, burned in the leather, could be plainly seen. The X
Bar X was proud of its mark. It stood for many years of upright,
square dealing.

Pop Burns, the oldest hand on the X Bar X ranch, claimed that he had
“invented” the brand for Temple Manley, the grandfather of Roy and
Teddy. Pop was inordinately boastful of this distinction, which he
had conferred on himself, and he never tired of telling newcomers
how he had happened to hit on the device of the “two sawbucks with a
piece of rail fence in between,” as he sometimes described it. So
vain was he of the mark that he placed it on everything
brandable--saddles, bridles, wagons, the autos, and all. Jim Casey
claimed he had even caught Pop marking Jim’s fancy vest with the X
Bar X, but this the veteran denied.

“Yes, sir, there’ll certainly be something doing if those rustlers
take any of our stuff,” Teddy went on. “Pop would be on their necks
in a minute! I can just see the old geezer raving mad, and frothing
around about: ‘Steal one of my brands, will ye? I’ll get ye fer that
if it takes me ten years!’ Oh, baby!” and Teddy laughed.

“That’s right!” Roy remarked. “But, say, I hope dad’s train is late.
If it isn’t, we’ll never make it! Come on, let’s hit it up!”

The boys urged the horses to a faster pace, and, somewhat winded,
reached the station at Eagles in a cloud of dust, much of which
clung to them and their mounts, where they slipped from the saddles
with grunts of relief. They tied the three horses to a hitching rail
not far from the station and concealed from the highway and the
railroad office by a rough shack that served as freight and express
depot.

“Yep, she’s late, all right,” announced Foley, the ticket agent, as
the boys tramped into the station. “All of thirty minutes behind
time. Your dad’s comin’ today, ain’t he? I see you got General out
there. Spotted him when ye swung around to tie up. That road to your
place must be some dusty, with the wind blowin’ up your back, hey?”

“I’ll tell a maverick it is!” agreed Roy, and then he and his
brother, after a glance about the dingy waiting room, sauntered out
to look over the town.

Perhaps “town” would be dignifying Eagles beyond its merits. There
was a main street, consisting of two restaurants, a post-office, six
stores and the railroad station. A little way down the track was a
large corral, used as a temporary retention place for dealers who
sent their steers to this point to be shipped. Often there would be
a delay of a day or more before sufficient cattle cars would arrive
at Eagles.

It was the cattle that brought the station; the station brought the
town, and the town brought all sorts of things, one of which was now
leaning against the front of Rimor’s Place, hat pulled low over his
face, smoke from an invisible cigarette drifting lazily about his
head.

Rimor’s Place was one of the two restaurants, although as an eating
house it failed to qualify. Yet its habitues were never heard to
complain of the quality of its food. The “hard-stuff” was good.

“There’s a tough-looking baby,” Teddy said in a low voice, nodding
toward the figure of the man outside of Rimor’s. “Seems like his
breakfast had soured on him.”

“It’s a rare bunch that hangs out at Duck Rimor’s,” Roy replied.
“They ought to close that place. Slim Dery’s restaurant is enough
for Eagles,” he declared emphatically.

A short time later the brothers again stood on the station platform,
eagerly watching for the express from the city. It pulled in, and a
tall, well set-up man of perhaps fifty-five alighted. He wore a
heavy dark mustache, and beneath his broad sombrero his black hair
was here and there tinged with gray. As his foot struck the platform
he reached in his pocket, and by the time Roy and Teddy had greeted
him, a corncob pipe reposed in the corner of his mouth.