Jules Kolto started. He staggered to his feet, trembling.

“Sister!” he cried, and opened his arms to the girl.

“Jules!” She rushed to him, sobbing and laughing at the same time.
“Jules! You here? Oh, Jules, I thought I’d never see you again!”

Gus stood as though turned to stone.

“What--what--” he stammered.

“Oh, Gus, this is my brother!” the blushing young wife cried, and
running to him pulled him forward by the hand. “My brother, Gus!
Don’t you understand?”

“Well, not very good--” Gus muttered, then his face cleared and he
thrust out his hand. “Joe,” he said, “I don’t know what this is all
about, but if she’s yore sister, shake! We’re brother-in-laws.”

“Brothers-in-law,” Bug Eye corrected. “The plural here takes the
possessive case.”

“Gus,” Mr. Manley said haltingly, “so yore back? Son, I’m glad! Put
’er there! I’m sorry I--”

“Boss!” Gus interrupted, “you needn’t be sorry for nothin’. It was
all my fault--the whole blame thing. But, boss, see what it got
me--ain’t she a beauty?” And he looked at his wife proudly.

“She sure is, Gus! Now let’s get this thing straight. Nick
Looker--where is that bowlegged wild man? Where’d you find Gus,
Nick?”

“He wandered back two days after Teddy an’ Roy left,” Nick chuckled.
“He’d been all the way to Togas, Mexico, an’ got married--You tell
it, Gus!”

“Well, boss, it was this way,” Gus began, as he gripped an arm of
Teddy and Roy affectionately. “You know I was worried about not
gettin’ no letters from the lady here--I mean my wife,” and he
blushed. “You know, Teddy--I told you about it. Gee, ain’t it funny
to have a wife? Well, she didn’t write for a long time, so I got
worried, an’ started to--do some things I shouldn’t. I thought she’d
threw me down.”

“But, Gus, I did write, every day!” his wife interrupted.

“Sure she did!” Nick burst out. “Gus, that dumb postmaster down at
Eagles mislaid the letters! I got ’em now in my bunk--a whole raft
of ’em!”

“You have? Well, I’m a ring-tailed doodle bird!” Gus said slowly,
and sat down. “An’ I went an’ got sick, almost, with worry, an’ let
the cattle stray ’cause I went to town an’ got drunk, an’ all this
happened because the postmaster lost my letters!
Can--you--beat--that?”

“Golly, Teddy, he’s right!” Roy exclaimed. “Snakes, it’s just like a
story! We went up Whirlpool River--got tipped over--found The
Pup--had the fight with the rustlers--everything--all on account of
some missing letters! Golly, that’s funny! If Gus had gotten those
letters he never would have neglected the cattle, would you, Gus?”

“Nope, not me! I hardly knew what I was doin’, I was so worried. I
thought you was dead, or somethin’,” and he felt bashfully for his
wife’s hand. When he caught it, after not much trouble, he went on:

“An’ that’s the way it was. So I heads fer Togas, after the boss
lets me out, an’ goes straight fer the little girl here. So we gets
hitched an’ come home!”

“You did come _home_, Gus,” Mr. Manley murmured. “This is your home
from now on!”

“Oh, Dad, isn’t this too romantic for words!” Belle Ada burst out.
“And all this happened because the letters Mrs. Tripp sent were
mislaid! But, Gus, didn’t you know your wife was Joe Marino’s
sister?” she asked, her eyes wide.

“Nope! That’s one too many for me, even now. His name’s Marino, an’
hers is--I mean was--Kolto. I don’t see--”

“Gus, if you do any more thinkin’ you’ll get a headache!” Mr. Manley
exclaimed, laughing loudly. Then he clapped his re-engaged cowboy on
the back. “Pull up that chair an’ dive into this here roast chicken!
Now, boys, I’ll drink that toast I started--here’s to Mr. and Mrs.
Tripp. May they live long an’ happy an’ never have more than one
scrap a day!”

“Bardwell!” Mrs. Manley chided, and smiled. “I’m sure Gus and his
wife won’t have one single dispute as long as they’re married!”