Teddy’s idea was to bring the heavy canoe, which lay under a shed in
the rear of the yard, to the water by one of the ranch trucks. Both
the boys had often been on the river before in this canoe, but never
had they been as far as the rapids, which gave the stream its name.
The part that flowed by the ranch was broad and peaceful, and
continued this way for some fifteen miles. Then, like a beast
suddenly released from a cage, it became a roaring, whirling
torrent, barely navigable, and dangerous always. It was down this
stream, and past these rapids, that Roy and Teddy had to go to reach
the cattle.

When Bug Eye and Pop heard the news, they began preparations
immediately. Pop examined the bottom of the canoe with minute care,
he and Bug Eye going over every seam, for this was the boat to which
they were to trust their lives. Bug Eye had received word by phone
from Pete Ball that he was not needed for a time at the 8 X 8, and
that Mr. Manley was welcome to his services. By one o’clock
everything was in order.

Roy, after several attempts, succeeded in awaking Nick for a few
moments, and under the boy’s eyes the puncher wrote his instructions
on a slip of paper, for Roy knew in his tired state he would never
remember them. This over, Nick murmured something that may have been
Chinese, but that sounded faintly like “good luck,” and, turning
over, resumed his interrupted slumbers.

Jim Casey was to drive the truck, containing the canoe, to the
river. All of them were needed to lift it in place on the vehicle,
so heavy was it, but at last it was in and securely lashed to
prevent it from jolting. The rest of the stuff, including food and
blankets, were piled in the front, to be unloaded and put into the
canoe when the river was reached.

Mrs. Manley, Belle, and the two visitors watched the start from the
porch. Affectionately the mother kissed her sons good-bye and
breathed a prayer for their safety. She knew that the journey they
were about to undertake was dangerous in the extreme, yet she never
uttered one word of protest. It was necessary that they go--their
father had called for them. And, as she waved good-bye, she smiled
cheerfully and bravely. These were her sons--they would come back as
they had always done, successful, unharmed. Yet strive as she would,
the mother could not keep a tiny lump from coming into her throat.

The truck containing the five men--Teddy, Roy, Bug Eye, Pop, and
Casey, the driver, reached the river in half an hour. Carefully the
canoe was lifted from the platform and carried to the water’s edge.

“Now!” Roy grunted, and they swung it into the stream. Eagerly they
bent over, watching the bottom with anxious eyes. For a moment they
waited.

“Not a drop!” Teddy exulted. “You did a good job, Pop. Nary a leak.
Hope she stays that way, and I guess she will. It’s a good boat. All
right, Jim. Let’s get the rest of the stuff out. Then you can mosey
back. Let Nick sleep as long as he wants to--he’s had a hard ride.
And tell Belle she’ll have to ride to Eagles herself for that whip I
promised her unless she wants to wait until I get back. It’s at the
express office now. Wait--take that roll of blankets first, and
we’ll stow ’em at the bow where they’ll stay dry.”

The canoe was soon loaded and ready to start. Roy and Bug Eye were
to paddle first, while Teddy and Pop sat in the middle.

“So long!” Jim called. “If you see The Pup tell him we been lookin’
for him!”

“Now why should we see The Pup?” Roy asked of no one in particular,
and dipped his paddle deep into the water. “Although I was thinking
the same thing a while ago. Pipe dreams, I guess. What do you say,
Bug Eye? Let’s hit it up. Hu, hu, hu, hu....”

The boat glided downstream, both paddlers stroking in unison to
Roy’s grunted chanty. The gentle current added to their speed, and
they went along at a good rate. On either side of the river, willows
trailed their drooping branches into the water and afforded a
grateful shade from the midday sun. Roy, seated in the rear of the
craft, steered nearer the edge to take advantage of this protection.

To the left, many miles from the river, but because of its hugeness
seeming almost to border it, rose the highest peak in that part of
the country. Its top was capped with eternal snow and framed in a
wreath of clouds--a picture to make even the most indifferent heart
beat faster. The sparkling water of the stream reflected the sun
like a polished mirror. After half an hour of paddling, Roy stopped
for a moment and shaded his eyes with his hand.

“She curves around here some place, doesn’t she?” he asked. “I don’t
exactly remember--it’s a long time since I’ve been down this far.”

“If by ‘she’ you mean the river, it does,” Bug Eye grinned, turning
around slightly. “It swings to the left, then it’s straight for a
long stretch before the rough water starts. Golly, it’s almost
smooth enough here to try my Fishmobile! Wish we could have brung
it--I mean brought it.”