It would be a shame if anything unpleasant happened now. Why, it was
not so long ago that they had rescued Belle and Nell Willis and
Ethel Carew from the kidnappers. How were the girls on the 8 X 8
getting on? Teddy wondered.

He came to a sudden decision to ride over to Peter Ball’s place to
visit them as soon as this business was over.

Clamping the lid tight on the flour can, the boy thought of the
cattle on Whirlpool River and of the absent Gus Tripp.

“Mighty queer that Gus would go to pieces like that,” he muttered to
himself. “There’s a reason behind it all, or I miss my guess. Gus
sure looked downhearted when he rode out.”

Teddy carried the can and the flour bin toward the house. It was now
about eight o’clock, and the bright fall sun brought the landscape
out in bold relief. Teddy paused a moment before he entered the
house and peered toward the mountains to the west, where he and Roy
had lately come to grips with the gang that had run off with his
sister and her two friends. Then his gaze shifted, and he looked
over the rolling prairie toward the spot where they had earlier
captured this same gang of rustlers, though they had later escaped
to make more mischief. A grim smile curved the boy’s lips.

“Did some one say the West was a quiet place to live in?” he
muttered, and laughed shortly. “Seems to me we do nothing but meet
trouble out here! Well, I suppose it’s all in the game. Now we’ve
got a mean job to get the cows off Whirlpool River. However--” He
shrugged his shoulders, replaced the flour bin, while the can he had
filled he carried to the yard and fastened to his saddle. His father
had told them to prepare for a journey of several days, and this
flour, mixed as it was with other ingredients, made fine “pan
bread.”

Roy met him at the corral.

“Can’t leave just yet,” he said. “Dad wants to wait until Nick comes
back. He rode down to see one of the boys from Jake Trummer’s place
who has been in town several days, hanging around. Dad wants to get
all the dope he can on this before he goes ahead, and Nick knows
this puncher pretty well and said he’d find out all he could. Nick
ought to be back in about two hours.”

“As soon as Nick returns we go--that the idea?”

“That’s it. Unless dad wants to start sooner, and I don’t think he
does. Say, is The Pup still around?”

“Yep.” Teddy smiled grimly. “Around, and noisy. He had a session
with Pop not over ten minutes ago. Pop told him where to get off,
too. I heard part of it. Started to gas about Gus and his letter.
But he got shut up quick, let me tell you. Pop wouldn’t stand for
hearing Gus made fun of. Where does this bacon go--on my saddle?”

“Guess so. I’ve got enough to carry. Golly, dad must expect to spend
Christmas on Whirlpool River, from the load we’re packing. Bet when
we get there Jake Trummer will forget his sore-headedness and invite
us to keep our cows there the rest of the year. That’s the kind Jake
is--quick to anger, but he gets over it just as fast. He’s a good
friend of dad’s too. At least he was before this happened. That’s
what made me think there’s more in this than we suspect. However,
we’ll know as soon as we hit the river. Jimminy! what in thunder is
that?”

Roy stopped and gazed up the road that led past the ranch house.
From behind the house came curious sounds--reminiscent of a load of
junk being pulled over cobblestones. Now and then a splutter, like
the gasp of some huge animal, made itself heard over the noise.
Teddy grinned.

“It will arrive in a moment,” he said.

It did. There soon came into sight one of the strangest contraptions
ever seen on four wheels. Once it had been a flivver, but those days
were gone forever. Its body was of shiny red and made to resemble a
boat, with a rudder in the rear, and a propeller. The wheels were
nearly concealed in the “hull.” From its pointed bow, blue smoke
arose.

Within it, on the front seat, sat a cow puncher, his face alight
with the joy of possession. In the rear were two girls, some two or
three years older than Belle Manley, trying in vain to suppress the
laughter that would bubble over.

“Bug Eye!” Teddy yelled. “And Nell and Curly! But what in the name
of seven sledges is that thing they’re riding in?”

“Howdy, boys!” Bug Eye called, waving one arm and reaching toward
the “in’ards” of the machine with the other. With a groan the
contraption subsided. “What do you think of my Fishmobile?”