“He won’t get away,” Roy asserted. “We’ll telephone in to the
sheriff at Hawley to be on the watch, in case he went that way. Then
maybe we can reach Nick’s friend at Eagles--the puncher he talked to
from the Whirlpool River Ranch. If he’s a friend of Nick’s, he’ll
help us out. Then, when dad comes back, we can start on the hunt.”

“Yea, but when’ll that be?” Teddy half grumbled. “A week, maybe. By
that time The Pup could be half way across the continent. Oh, I know
it’s the only thing to do,” he added quickly, as he saw Roy stare at
him. “But--oh, well, I guess you know how I feel!”

“It wasn’t your fault at all, Teddy,” Mrs. Manley consoled. “How
could you know that Marino was here to steal?”

“Aw, I might have guessed he’d try some stunt like that,” the boy
muttered. “After he--I mean when I saw him sneakin’ around. Well, we
live and learn. Anything else missing, Mother?”

“I don’t believe so, and I certainly hope not,” Mrs. Manley
answered. “A horse and four hundred dollars are quite enough. Do you
think--oh, I can’t think--Gus--”

“Not any!” Teddy exploded forcibly. “And that reminds me, Roy! That
conversation you heard behind the bunk-house! Marino was trying to
get Gus to go into this scheme with him and split the money. That’s
it, as sure as shooting! Nope, Mom, Gus had no finger in this! It
was Marino, all alone. I’ll lay anything on that.”

“You’re probably right, Teddy,” Roy agreed, his face clearing. “At
least it’s an explanation of what I heard. Of course we can’t be
sure of that, though it sounds likely. The Pup may have had another
idea, and just formed the plan to rob our place on the spur of the
moment when he heard dad was away. Come on, let’s take a look at the
desk. That may tell us something.”

When they reached Mr. Manley’s office they saw in a moment that the
drawer of the desk had been pryed open with some sort of knife, and
the lock sprung. There were marks--small cuts--about the woodwork on
the edge of the desk. As Roy saw these, he looked at Teddy
significantly, but said nothing. He did not want his mother to know
of the knife episode.

A raised window on the side indicated how the intruder had gained
entrance. Such was the faith that Mr. Manley had in his men that he
never bothered to lock up at night, and this was the first time in
all the years he had been the owner of the X Bar X that his trust
had been violated. Perhaps it was carrying things to extremes to
allow a large sum of money to remain unprotected, but “the boss” was
ever an unreliable business man. It was this very quality which so
endeared him to his family and to his associates--the quality of his
lovable childishness. Yet there were those who could tell of another
nature which lay buried beneath this exterior--a nature which men of
evil character had learned to fear. When aroused, the boss of the X
Bar X was a “fightin’ fool,” as Pop expressed it.

Realizing that there was nothing more to be learned within the
office, Roy and Teddy returned to the ranch yard and informed the
men of what had occurred. There was a quick rush for “shootin’
irons,” which had to be forcibly quelled. There were many saddened
faces when Roy told them that they could not start in immediate
pursuit of the marauder, but must wait for the return of the boss.

“I hate to hang around here as much as you do,” he finished. “But
dad’ll be back soon, and then we’ll have our inning. There’s a bare
chance that some one else may pick up The Pup. If that happens,
we’ll be saved the trouble--although it would almost be a pleasure,”
and his lips shut tightly.

“An’ we ain’t to do nothin’?” Pop Burns asked wistfully.

“Not yet awhile. We can’t. If dad were only here, we could get up a
gang and go after him. But we’ve got to stay on the place. That was
the order, an’ I aim to see it’s enforced. Of course if when you are
on range you should see The Pup, well--”

“That’s enough, Roy,” Nat interrupted feelingly. “We’ll do the rest.
There ain’t no need for you to elucidate. But aside from that, if
you say we stick on the ranch, stick we do. But I hope the boss gets
back soon. Marino--the polecat! Rustlin’ one of our best horses! The
ole--” and Nat proceeded to lay bare the secrets of The Pup’s life
as he understood them.

The first excitement of the discovery over, the ranch settled down
to its usual workaday tasks. There was much to be done, and the men
were soon absorbed in their labor. There are dull times about a
ranch, but the early fall is not one of them, and thus it was that
when a rider, dusty, hot, and tired, loped into the ranch yard he
found it deserted. The only person in sight was Sing Lung, who sat
in the doorway of the cook house enjoying the morning sun, and
probably dreaming about the pleasanter and more picturesque lands
across the sea. But when he saw the horseman, a grin came to his
face and he waved a hand.