“Think this is it?” he asked Teddy.

“I think so,” answered his brother. “We’ll take it--have to! Come
on!”

As Teddy headed his horse off the trail and into the bush, he had a
queer feeling that this was all a vivid dream--that he and Roy had
been riding like this forever, on and on, mile after mile, over
mountains and through valleys. Chasing--what was it they were
chasing? Oh, yes! Flash! And Star and General! Why, of course. What
was the matter with him? He shook his head savagely. Was he a
tenderfoot that a ride like this should do him up? Why, he--around
that fallen tree, you bronc you! Not over it! Suddenly swift
realization came to Teddy. No wonder he felt weak! Here it was late
afternoon, and he had not had anything to eat since breakfast!

“Feel all right, Roy?” he yelled, turning in his saddle.

“Yes--pretty good! Kind of hungry!”

“Me, too!”

The comparative safety of the trail had given way to a heavy tangle
of underbrush which made the riding extremely dangerous. Still, the
boys had for consolation the fact that it was as bad for the
rustlers as it was for them.

Gradually it came to Roy that the chase was hopeless unless they
could tell which way the thieves had gone. He motioned to Teddy to
stop, and the two boys listened intently. There was no sound of
cracking twigs, no noise of distant crashing of horses’ feet through
the forest. All was silent.

“Seems like we’ve lost them,” Roy said, a note of despair in his
voice.

Teddy settled deeper in his saddle and blew out his breath in a long
sigh. The world seemed especially dark at that moment. After that
long, hard ride, with success almost in their grasp, to have failed
now! The boy took off his hat and ran his fingers through his damp
hair, then let his arm drop heavily down to his side in a gesture of
despondency.

“It’s tough luck!” he said in a dull voice. “Pretty tough luck! We
almost had ’em!”

“If I hadn’t fallen we might have caught ’em,” Roy declared
regretfully. “I could kick myself! Pulling a stunt like that!”

“Aw, it wasn’t your fault,” Teddy said in rough sympathy. He tried
to cover up the memory of how his heart had leaped into his throat
when Roy crashed to the ground. Teddy looked over at his brother.
Their eyes met. Then Roy knew how Teddy had felt while he, himself,
was lying in the brush.

“Well, we can’t do much here,” Teddy said, moving uneasily in the
saddle. “Let’s go back. It’s getting late.”

“I’ll tell a maverick it is! And I’m hungry. Besides, dad’ll be
worried. When we started up that left fork, I thought dad and the
rest might hear us and follow. But I guess they were too far ahead.
Well, the best thing we can do now is to find him and tell him what
we saw. Maybe we’ll be able to pick up the trail of our lost broncs
when we get back on the path.”

Looking up at the sun to make sure of their direction, the boys rode
slowly back toward the path. After the excitement of the pursuit,
the reaction had set in, and both felt low in spirits. The fact that
they had had no dinner contributed not a little to their depression.

The horses, heads held low, picked their way through the brush.
They, too, were tired and thirsty.

For a long time neither of the boys spoke. At length Teddy licked
his lips and remarked:

“I’m mighty dry, Roy. Seems to me there’s a spring around here
somewhere. Remember it?”

“Sort of. Not just sure where it is, though. I’ll--”

He stopped. To his ears came a peculiar buzzing, like the sound of
some giant locust.

The horses heard it at the same instant, and they swerved about and
would have bolted but for the firm hands of their riders. Teddy
peered sharply down at a large gray boulder that lay half imbedded
in the soil, a deep, wide gash running from one end of it to the
other.