IX

The Water Trail


To Teddy’s excited questions, Nick gave only mumbled replies, and
waved his hand protestingly.

When Roy bent down and raised him to a sitting position he declared
he knew nothing more than what was in the letter, except that a
wandering horseman had told of a slide near Whirlpool River, which
threatened to force the cattle into the water, should it reoccur,
and would the boys “please give the bronc some water.” This was
attended to, and the boys got ready to start.

Nick came to life suddenly at Sing Lung’s cry of “come an’ get ’um,”
and started lurchingly for the mess house. After he was stoked with
food and coffee, he aroused himself to an interest in life, and
where he was taciturn before, he was a veritable spring of
information now. The food acted as a stimulant, after his long fast
and hard ride, and he talked willingly.

Teddy and Roy, eager as they were to set out, felt it would be worth
their while to delay long enough to hear Nick’s story, so they
waited for him to light a cigarette, settle himself comfortably on a
bunk, and commence.

“We struck camp about seven last night,” Nick said, blowing out a
swirling cloud of smoke. “The goin’ had been bad, on account of the
rains, an’ we didn’t make such good time, ’cause the boss wanted to
save the broncs. We hit that place on the other side of Harver’s
Gully--forget the name of it--’bout twenty miles west of the gulch.
Then we got set for the night.

“Long about nine o’clock, just when Slim Holiday was startin’ one of
them dirges he calls a song, we hears a noise an’ up rides a hombre
on a pony that looked like it was more use as a hat-rack than a
horse. This waddy tells us something that sure makes us sit up an’
take notice.”

“The slide?” Teddy interrupted.

“Check! He says the whole top of Friendly Mountain has shifted, an’
part of it’s slid down into the valley almost to the edge of
Whirlpool River. Says he saw it happen, an’ the rest of the mountain
is likely to go any day now. Says if it does, it’ll about block up
the river.”

“Just where on the river is this?” Roy asked excitedly. “That river
is some long, runs into Thunder Canyon, I think. The slide may not
be near our cattle.”

“May not, an’ then again it may. That’s the way yore dad feels about
it. Last we heard of that bunch of dogies they was near Friendly
Mountain. They may be there yet, or they may have wandered Pete
knows where. But we can’t take no chances. We got to see that the
cows get out quick. Yore dad says the pick of the whole bunch is in
that herd.”

“They are, too,” Teddy mused. “All our best short-horns. Was dad
worried, Nick?”

“Well, he wasn’t any too easy in his mind. So he roots me out to
ride back--which I done. Yep, which I done.” Nick’s head started to
nod, and Teddy motioned toward the bunk he was sitting on. Gently
the two boys deposited the puncher on the bed, took his still
smoking cigarette from his fingers, and left him to shake the
rafters with healthy snores.

“I don’t like the looks of this at all,” Roy declared, as soon as
they reached the yard. “I kind of hate to leave mother alone with
Marino around. If he should come back--”

“I wouldn’t worry about that,” Teddy assured him. “Marino isn’t
going to show his face around here for some time to come. And then,
too, Nick will be here. Mother will be all right. She depends on
Nick--and he’s a good man. Now we’ve got to tell her, and find Bug
Eye and Pop. I suppose Bug Eye will want to go in that Fishmobile of
his--but not with me. Suppose you see mother while I find the
others?”

Mrs. Manley took the news calmly. Nell and Ethel were disappointed
that the boys were going to leave, but at Belle’s insistence they
promised to remain until their return.

“Bring back some fish,” Belle suggested. “Some trout, if you can.”

“If we bring back any fish, they’ll be the kind that walk on land,”
Roy declared grimly. His mind flew to The Pup, and he wondered if
there was a chance of meeting him. Then, with a laugh, he dismissed
the thought. “That would be the kind of thing you read about, but
never happens,” he decided. “I reckon we’ll never see him again, nor
our money or horse either.”