“Because, didn’t he head right for there? And then when we got there
he seemed sort of sorry he’d come. He thought I knew too much for
the good of his health. Golly, Ted, when you rode by that grove of
trees I sure held my breath! Froud had his gun stuck hard into my
ribs, and if you had taken it into your head to ride in I’d be
strummin’ a harp right now.”

“Oh, well, if I had come in, Froud might have beat it off. Can’t
tell. Roy, you should have seen that flivver! The top was ripped
completely off. Two tires were flat. The motor was a wreck. It
looked as though it had been struck by lightning.”

“Wonder what they did all that for? I suppose you didn’t find the
dresses Mrs. Ball sent over?”

“Not a trace. Looked like a spite job to me. Bug Eye said the same.
If he ever catches the gang who held him up, he’ll spite ’em!”

“Did he go back to the 8 X 8?”

“No; he’s asleep in the bunk-house. He wants to have another look
for the thieves, I guess. If his boss thinks it’s the same gang that
stole his cattle, he’ll let Bug Eye search all he wants to--and
maybe help him. I’ve got a hunch that something is bound to break
soon. The people around these parts are pretty sick and tired of
having those roughnecks play fast and loose with their property.”

“You said a mouthful! Come on! Let’s hit the deck. We’ve got plenty
to do.”

“Think we ought to have another go at the dance tonight?”

“Not me! Anyway, the evening dresses of Nell and Ethel are lost, and
so they won’t be so keen for it. We’ll just let it slide. Things are
going to be pretty lively here from now on. There won’t be much time
for dancing.”

Springing from his bed, Roy walked to the bathroom and doused his
head and face with cold water. Teddy did the same, and after
“slicking up” a bit the two boys made for the yard. Mr. Manley was
standing talking to Nick Looker when Roy and Teddy approached.

“Roy,” his father called, “c’mere a second, will you? Want to ask
you some more about that scar-faced friend of yours. Whereabouts in
Harver’s Gully did he take you?”

“Well, there’s a grove of quakermasts down on the near side of the
river. If you keep on going, you’d come to a small rise, from which
you could see for a good distance on either side. I rode over there
only last fall.”

“Yore dad said you had an idee the rustlers hang out around there,”
Nick stated. “That so, Roy?”

“I don’t know whether it’s so or not, Nick; but that’s what I think.
As I told dad, Froud seemed kind of sorry he’d brought me to the
gully. Then he ducked as soon as he could without waiting to fight
it out with me, though I winged him in the arm after he’d nicked me
here,” and Roy pointed to his ear. “He’s got to have that arm of his
treated some place, or he’ll get poisoned. The nearest doctor is
over at Hawley. Say, I think I’ll--”

“Telephone to him to hold a man with a wounded arm?” Teddy
interrupted. “I thought of that, too. Go ahead, Roy. Myself, I don’t
figure much on getting Froud that way. But it won’t do any harm to
try.”

Mr. Manley said they would wait there while Roy telephoned. When the
boy returned his face bore a disappointed look.

“Doc said he’d been there early this morning and gone,” Roy
declared. “We might have had a chance if I had called up sooner.
Well--”

“The doc couldn’t have held him,” Mr. Manley broke in. “Suppose it
happened to be the wrong man? Doc ’ud be in a fine fix then. No,
boys, we’ve got to work this thing out for ourselves. No use foolin’
around. The thing to do is to ride that varmint down an’ snub his
horns so he can’t do no more damage. Seems to me he’s got a streak
of real meanness in him. Didn’t do him no good a-tall to steal that
flivver. He just wanted to act up. Well, his time will come. An’
when it does, he’s got an awful lot to account for!”

Bug Eye made his appearance at six o’clock. He had slept off his
wild anger at finding his flivver wantonly wrecked, but still the
indignity of being made to walk all those miles to the X Bar X
smouldered within him. A cowboy’s legs are not for walking, they are
to keep him steady on a horse.

Upon being told of Roy’s adventure with Froud, Bug Eye asked Mr.
Manley for a horse to ride after the rustler, but he was persuaded
to calm down and sit tight for a bit.