XII

VISITORS


“Nick, why’n thunder don’t you give that mouth-organ of yourn to
Sing Lung an’ let him make soup out of it?” Gus Tripp drawled.

The cowboys, Roy and Teddy among them, were sprawled in lazy
attitudes just outside the bunk-house. Several days had passed since
they had ridden after the horse thieves--days of fruitless searching
for the lost animals.

Nick finished the last, plaintive strains of “Home, Sweet, Home,”
and removed the instrument from his lips. Noon mess had just been
concluded, and the men were resting a few moments before resuming
the work of the ranch.

“Huh?” Nick grunted. “What was that, Gus?”

“I say you ought to give that wind-wailer to Sing Lung to make soup
out of.”

“Yea?” Nick tapped the harmonica gently on the palm of his hand.
“Maybe you figger the noise you make drinkin’ soup would turn into
music then, hey?”

“Chalk up one for Nick,” Teddy grinned. Except for a small cut on
his head, the boy had completely recovered from his dangerous fall.

“Notice you been practicin’ up quite a bit lately,” Jim Casey put
in. “Norine say she likes to hear you play, Nick?” he questioned.
Norine was Mrs. Moore’s daughter, Mrs. Moore being a widow who for
five years had been the cook and housekeeper at the ranch house.

“That’s all right,” Nick returned. “Roy, tell us what Jim had on the
other night when he went callin’ over to the house. Go on, tell the
assembled multitude!”

“A boiled shirt,” Roy answered, with a smile. “At first I didn’t
believe it was Jim, but when I went closer I heard him sing, and
then I knew it was him.”

“There you are!” Nick arose and spread his arms in a wide gesture.
“The gentleman goes callin’ in a boiled shirt, an’ singin’! Could
anything be sweeter?”

“Yes! Crackers an’ milk!” Pop Burns exclaimed. “But not much
sweeter. Tell you, I don’t know what this younger generation is
comin’ to. Nick learns to blow tunes on a hunk o’ tin. Jim sports a
boiled shirt. Gus--I don’t know what Gus does. I ain’t ketched him
yet. An’ all because a silly girl knows how to make goo-goo eyes!”

“She ain’t a silly girl!” Explosions of indignation burst about
Pop’s ears.

“She’s nice, let me tell you!”

“You bet she is! Silly girl! Huh!”

“She’s the purtiest girl I ever see!”

“How’d you used to go callin’ on a girl, you old bronco-peeler? With
a six-gun hangin’ from yore belt an’ a bowie knife between yore
teeth?”

“Yes!” Pop shouted, above the din. “I sure would! In my day we went
courtin’ in hats, not hair tonic!”

“I suppose that’s why you got so much hair now!” Gus yelled,
doubling up with exaggerated laughter. “Boy, that dome of yourn
shines like a Mexican dollar!”

Pop clamped his hat savagely back on his head, and then grinned.

“Well, I suppose boys will be boys. ’Scuse me now. I got to work.
There’s some blocks behind the cook-house you children can amuse
yourselves with. You can build houses. But don’t build ’em too high.
They might fall on you an’ bust a finger nail or somethin’. Then
Norine wouldn’t like you no more!” Before they could answer him, the
veteran puncher tramped off.

“Crazy old coot!” Nat Raymond said with a grin. “Always has the last
word! Well, let’s get goin’, boys. There’s plenty to do. Roy, you’re
the boss this week, ain’t you? Want me to ride down to Eagles and
see if our inoculation stuff has come in yet?” He had reference to
an antitoxin which cattle are given to prevent a disease called
blackleg.

“Guess you’d better, Nat,” Roy said. “And while you’re there, take a
good look around. See if you can spot that puncher in a shirt
that--isn’t striped.”