“I just hated that man when he threw that cigarette at you!” Ethel
burst out impetuously to Teddy. “That was an awfully mean thing to
do!”

“I know it,” Teddy answered in a low voice. He turned to his father,
who was staring up the road. “Dad, we’ve got to get back and get
some more broncs. How are you figuring on going?”

“Can’t you come with us?” Ethel asked. “Uncle Peter said he would
send a car. It must have been delayed, but I’m sure it will come.”

“Yes, if Bug Eye brings a car for you, we can all pile in. Bug Eye
usually drives for old man--pardon me, I mean Mr. Ball.”

“That’ll be fine!” Nell said enthusiastically.

“Here comes something now,” Mr. Manley stated, peering up the road.
“Lots of dust, anyhow. Sounds like a flivver. Yes, that’s Bug Eye.
Tell the way he drives. All over the place.”

With an elaborate jamming on of brakes and swinging of front wheels,
a car pulled up alongside of the waiting group. Following closely
was a cloud of dust, which enveloped the auto the moment it stopped.
From within the cloud came a voice:

“Whoa there, you tin-plated drone, you! Pull up on yo’ busted axles!
Plant yo’ locoed wheels and stay set! Stop that shakin’! _Stop_ it,
I say! Boil me in oil, if I don’t rip yo’ carburetor right out o’
you! Try to bounce the liver outta me, hey? Why, you salivated piece
of yaller-backed tin, I’ll-- Excuse _me_, ma’am!”

The dust had blown away, disclosing the surprised face of Bug Eye
Wilson.

“I shore didn’t know you was here,” he said to Nell and Ethel, with
an embarrassed grin. “I wouldn’t have talked like that if I’d knowed
ladies was around. I don’t never do such things. But this
hopper-necked, sawed off, lead mule--pardon _me_, ma’am! I forgot!”

Nell and Ethel were doing their best to preserve straight faces, but
the task was almost too much for them. Ethel had to press a
handkerchief to her mouth, while her eyes watered with strangled
mirth.

“You’re--you’re late, aren’t you?” Nell asked, trying to control her
voice.

“Yes, ma’am. Got a puncture. Had to put on a new tire. Then
this--this--well, ma’am, you know what I mean!”

“Yes, I guess I do,” Nell answered faintly. “But I’m glad you came.
Mr. Manley’s horses have been stolen, and he and Roy and Teddy are
going to ride back with us.”

“Hey! What’s that?” Bug Eye turned swiftly toward the ranchman, the
grin fading suddenly from his face. “Broncs gone, honest?”

“Sure have gone,” answered Mr. Manley laconically. “Hooked. Rustled.
Stolen. Whatever you’ve a mind to call it. And right off the main
street of Eagles!” he added bitterly.

Of a sudden, he turned and walked rapidly down the street.

“What’s the game, Dad?” asked Roy, not quite able to account for his
father’s action.

“You stay there. I’ll be back in a minute,” Mr. Manley called over
his shoulder. “I want to see what I can find out about this.”

In a moment he was out of sight behind the freight shed. The two
boys wanted to go with him, but Roy mentioned to Teddy that they had
been told to stay where they were.

“I hope dad doesn’t get into a scrap,” murmured the older lad.

“I don’t reckon he will,” remarked Bug Eye. “But if he does, all he
needs is to sing out, an’ we’ll all come runnin’!”

The anxiety of Teddy and Roy was soon at an end, for in a few
minutes their father re-appeared. He looked tired and dusty, but
there was a grim smile on his face.

“Some of the railroad men down at the corral saw ’em,” Mr. Manley
reported to his sons. “There were three fellows leading our three
horses away.”

“Why didn’t they stop ’em?” Roy wanted to know.

“They didn’t have any cause to, son. Thought the men owned the
horses, as was natural. Those fellows didn’t wear any brand to let
folks know they were rustlers.”