Teddy and Roy could hardly wait to ride to Cottonwood Bowl.
Swallowing a hasty breakfast, they started, together with Nick and
Pop. Mr. Manley stayed at the ranch to guard the prisoners until the
sheriff from Hawley could take them into custody.

As the riders reached the spot Brand had described, Teddy mounted
the rock and parted the brush which grew on top. He looked over.
Then he gave a yell.

“Flash! And Star and General! Running around like colts! Take a
look, Roy! Take a look! Baby! Let’s get down there quick! Here’s the
path around to the left! Come on, Roy! Hurry up! Wow, you old bronc
you! Be with you in a minute!”

“Just like kids,” Nick said to Pop, with a grin, as the two brothers
ran down the path toward the enclosure. “They’re crazy to get their
ponies under them, an’ I don’t know as I blame ’em! Golly--watch
’em! Look at Roy! By jimminy, he’s _kissin’_ the bronc! Now he’s
on--so is Teddy! Yay, boy! See ’em go! Ride ’em, cowboy! Yay!”

Around the Bowl the boys flashed, milling the small herd of cattle
like veterans. Then they broke the cows and ran them out of the Bowl
into the path. Aided by Nick and Pop, they started the drive for the
X Bar X, leading General and their other horses.

“Take a look at him!” Roy exclaimed, patting Star’s side. “Skin
shines like satin! Must have taken good care of you, bronc! That’s
another thing we’ve got to thank Checkered Shirt for. Golly, it’s
good to be astride again!”

“Same here!” Teddy cried. “Gee, I never expected to see this ole
horse again! Did I, you crazy coot, you? Nope, he says! Never did!
See him nod his head? Atta baby! Speak up!”

“Yo’re sure happy, ain’t you?” Pop grinned.

“I’ll tell a maverick!” Roy exploded. “Why shouldn’t we be? An’ wait
till dad sees General! Boy! He won’t be _very_ glad!”

At last they reached the X Bar X with the cattle. It was a long,
dusty, hot ride, but to Teddy and Roy it was just a pleasure jaunt.
The cattle were placed in the X Bar X corral until Mr. Ball should
send for them. Mr. Manley was overjoyed to see General again, and
insisted on riding with the two boys back to the cabin where they
had left Checkered Shirt, although Mrs. Manley was sure they would
fall asleep in their saddles. They decided that it would be better
to bring the wounded man back to the ranch if he could be moved,
rather than to waste time getting a doctor to the out-of-the-way
cabin.

To his wife’s objection that he needed rest, Mr. Manley answered:

“Don’t worry about us, Barbara. We won’t fall asleep. Not on these
broncs! Hey, Teddy? Nick, when the sheriff comes, tell a few of the
boys to saddle up and help him bring those four galoots to Hawley.
Guess they won’t give you no trouble. All right, boys, let’s go!”

When Mr. Manley and his two sons reached the cabin they noticed that
the door was open. Dismounting, they walked in.

The shack was deserted. On the floor in front of the fireplace was a
branding iron, resting on a piece of paper. Bending over, Teddy
picked the paper up. On it were the words:

“Thanks fer helpin me out. Sorry I got to leev so soon,
but I gess you no wy. My cut is mos better. Think Ill tak
yore advice an quit rustlin. I just noticed the X on this
iron ain’t korreck. The top is to large. So Im quittin.
So long. Good luck to you.
“Brand.”

“Can you beat that?” Roy said, with a chuckle. “Stopping because he
made a mistake in a branding iron! Funny rustler, isn’t he? I sort
of like him, though. He’s no coward. Well, we may as well start
back. Baby, I’m getting sleepy! Wait!” He seized the iron that lay
on the floor. “For a souvenir. We’ll remember this summer, anyway!
So long, Checkered Shirt! Good luck to you, too!”

Indeed, the summer did linger long in the boys’ memories. More
exciting times were in store for them, as will be told in the next
book, called “The X Bar X Boys in Thunder Canyon.” But they never
forgot their adventures while chasing the rustlers and looking for
their stolen horses.

As they mounted and turned their faces toward home, Roy looked over
at Teddy. Mr. Manley smiled, for he knew what was coming.

“Want to ride over to see Curly tomorrow?” the boy asked, with a
grin.