The man shook his head.

“Not me! I didn’t rustle yore hosses. But what I was goin’ to--to--”
a fit of coughing wracked his whole frame. Roy tightened the
tourniquet slightly, so that the bleeding would not begin again.
When the man regained control of himself Teddy gave him another
drink, and he grinned his gratitude. Then, for the first time, he
noticed the stick of wood entwined in the improvised bandage. He
looked at it curiously.

“Where’d you get that?” he asked.

“Guess you know,” Roy declared shortly. “It’s the handle to an 8 X 8
branding iron.”

A flicker of amusement appeared in the man’s eyes. Then he started
to laugh. Weakly at first, then louder, until Teddy feared he might
be becoming delirious. But in a moment the laughter ceased, to give
way to a sardonic smile.

“Ain’t that luck for you?” He looked at the stick once more. “Savin’
my life with a rustler’s branding iron! An’ me--I’m the rustler! Can
you beat it?”

“Never mind that now,” Teddy said. “What were you saying when that
cough hit you?”

“Give me a chance, will you?” the man snarled. “Here I am dyin’,
maybe, an’ you keep askin’ questions! It’s funny, though--it sure is
funny--”

“You won’t die unless you get strung up,” Roy asserted coolly.
“Better come clean. Who are you? Do you know where our horses are?”

For a moment the man did not answer. He appeared to be turning
something over in his mind. Then suddenly he hammered his fist on
the floor, and raised himself on one elbow.

“I’ll tell,” he said forcibly. “I’ll tell you the whole thing! I’m
done with Gilly Froud--the rat! He tried his best to kill me! Now
listen!”

The fire flared up, and Roy and Teddy bent over the injured man.
Outside the rain had stopped, but the sky was still overcast, so
that shadows thrown by the dancing flames played cheerily about in
the dim light of the room. A horse whinnied softly, but neither Roy
nor Teddy heard it. The man on the floor took a deep breath and
continued:

“My name--never mind my name. You wouldn’t know it, anyway. My
business you gotta know--I’m a rustler.” He paused for a moment.

“One of Gilly Froud’s gang?” Roy asked eagerly.

“Gilly Froud’s gang? No! You think that sneak has got nerve enough
to boss a bunch of rustlers? He was one of my gang until now, an’ I
hope he gets it good! Thought he could kill me an’ take all the
cattle for himself--left me for dead an’ rode away. But I fooled
him! I ain’t dead yet, by a long shot! I waited till I saw him go,
then I started on foot--he’d taken my bronc. Somehow I couldn’t stop
this bleedin’, an’ I got weaker. Then it started to rain, an’ I
said, ‘Well, here goes nothin’.’ I made for this shack, thinkin’ I’d
come here an’ die, where I kept my brandin’ irons--an’ right good
irons they are, too, if I do say it myself! I wanted to take one
more look at ’em. Had an idea that the 8 X 8 brand wasn’t just
perfect, an’ I wanted to find out before I passed on. You see, we
sometimes have to use the old iron with the new.” He looked up at
Roy, who was holding the wooden handle of the tourniquet. “Was it
all right? Does that curl on the eight look real?”

“It does,” Roy answered, glancing down with a puzzled expression. A
man who thought he was dying wanting to take a last look at the
irons with which he branded stolen horses!

“Glad of that,” the wounded man said, with a sigh. “I never made a
mistake on an iron in my life, an’ I just wanted to satisfy myself
before I kicked the bucket. Well, I guess you know the rest. Here I
am. What are you goin’ to do with me?”

“But our horses!” Teddy demanded. “Where are they?”

“Oh, they’re safe. We got ’em corralled with the cattle. I said I
didn’t steal ’em, and I didn’t. But I saw ’em stolen. I was leanin’
against Rimor’s Place that day you met me. It was Froud that took
yore broncs. He said yore dad kicked him off yore ranch, an’ he
wanted to get even. I tole him to ferget it, but he wouldn’t. Said
he’d get square if it was the last thing he ever did--that he wanted
to finish beatin’ a certain hoss. It was this that turned me against
him. I may be a rustler, but I never beat no hoss! Nor hurt one!”