“Pipe dreams,” the boy muttered. “We’ve seen all we ever shall of
Joe Marino.”

“Roy, quit that mumbling and speak up!” Teddy exclaimed. “What’s on
your mind?”

“The Pup, for one thing,” Roy answered grimly. “He’s got a horse of
ours, and four hundred dollars. I hate to let him get away with a
raw thing like that without an effort to catch him.”

“We’ll make more than an effort, Roy, when we get this cattle
business finished,” Mr. Manley called back. “We’ll have every
sheriff in the state on his trail, and maybe we’ll take a hand in it
ourselves. He was the man who put Gus on the bum. I can’t forget
that.”

“There’s another little item that sticks in my mind,” Teddy remarked
in a low voice. “It happened near the corral the night the horse and
the money were stolen. Guess you know what I mean, Roy. Though I’d
rather have it sticking in my mind than in my chest,” he added
significantly.

“The knife with J. K. on it,” Roy returned. “Sure, I know, Teddy.
But the sooner we forget The Pup the better. He’s gone. If we catch
him, fine! If not--well, charge it up to profit and loss.”

“That’s the right idea, Roy,” Mr. Manley agreed. “We’ve got enough
on our hands now. If we get our cattle back I’ll be satisfied.”

“I suppose I ought to be--and maybe I’ll have to be; but it sure
sticks in my craw to let a thing like that get by me!” muttered
Teddy.

The gloom of evening was at hand, and the men rode in close
formation, talking in subdued tones. Pop and Bug Eye were ahead,
leading. Roy and Teddy brought up the rear, their father riding just
ahead of them. They had planned to cover as much distance as
possible before dark, so that when morning came they would be near
enough to the rustlers to seize them before they had a chance to
escape.

They soon came to the lowlands just beyond the range of Whirlpool
River Ranch. The air here was damp and chill, due to the moisture
from the river which had settled in the depressions. To add to this,
the night promised to be cloudy, with no moon showing. Already the
dull, gray canopy was curtaining the evening sky, cutting off, in
the fullness of its glory, the western sunset.

“This is the first real touch of fall we’ve had,” Roy remarked,
buttoning his shirt collar higher. Then, raising his voice: “Where
are you figuring to stop, Dad? Going to ride part of the night?”

Mr. Manley, the better to reply, wheeled his pony and circled back
toward his son.

“Nope,” he answered. “Soon as we top this rise ahead we’ll call a
halt. We sure don’t want to camp in this place. Golly, it’s damp!”
and he shivered slightly.

The leaders of the column quickened their pace, so that they might
leave the lowlands as quickly as possible. Pop, like most old
ranchmen, had his pet superstitions, and one of them was that it was
unlucky to stay long in such a place.

“Things happen,” he declared vaguely. “The mountains are all
right--don’t care how high they are. Open range is all right. But
every time I ride through land that sets low, I get a feelin’ that
somethin’ is goin’ to turn up. Don’t know why, but I do.”

“Ever hear that dampness was bad for rheumatism?” Teddy chuckled.
“That might have something to do with it, Pop.”

“No sir,” and Pop shook his head obstinately. “It’s got nothin’ to
do with rheumatism. Even Nat Raymond’s pony knows what I mean. Look
at the way he’s actin’.”

In truth, the bronco Nat rode, which had come from the home ranch
with him, was acting queerly. The pony would come to a dead stop,
lift its head, whinny, and proceed. This performance was repeated
several times.

Mr. Manley observed the horse with interest.

“What makes him do that, Nat?” he asked. “You pullin’ him up?”

“Not any, boss.” Nat answered sincerely. “He’s doin’ it himself.
Like Pop said, I guess, he don’t like lowlands.”

“Seems to me as though he sensed a stranger around,” Teddy said to
Roy in a low tone. “I’ve seen Nat’s bronco do that before, when a
new man came into the yard of the X Bar X. It’s got nothing to do
with the place we’re in now.”