“We’re on the right trail, boys!” he exclaimed. “This here is the
box Mrs. Ball gave me fer yore sister, Teddy. But it’s empty, now.
Whatever was in it, the thieves took. Well, that’s some help! Roy,
we ought to meet up with yore dad soon, unless he made a powerful
wide circle.”

Remounting again, Bug Eye and the rest resumed their chase. Ahead of
them they spied three horsemen.

“There’s dad now!” Roy cried, forcing his mount onward. “Yay, Dad!
Find anything?”

“Not yet! But we’ve not finished! How’d you make out?”

“We got a clue, boss!” Jim Casey answered. “I spotted a box in the
road an’ Bug Eye says it was in the flivver with him. So the thieves
must have come this way.”

Roy spurred his horse close to his father’s.

“Another thing, Dad,” the boy remarked in a low voice. “Bug Eye said
that one of the hold-up men had on a checkered shirt!”

“You don’t say!” Mr. Manley appeared startled. “But of course we
have to remember that there’s probably more than one checkered shirt
around here, though I don’t recall ever seein’ one as loud as the
one we noticed at Eagles. Roy, that’s right interestin’ news!”

“Do we go on, boss?” Nick Looker asked.

“We sure do!” the ranch owner answered forcibly. “We’ll trail that
flivver till we get it, by jinks!”

Once more the riders started off. The night was growing misty now,
and the tracks were harder to see, so that the punchers had to
proceed more slowly. Once Pop Burns thought he saw the car at one
side, but it proved to be only a large boulder.

After riding some five or six miles, Mr. Manley called to his party
to halt.

“There’s something fishy about this,” the cattle owner declared.
“These tracks don’t seems to get any place! An’ by the way, there’s
more than one car in this part of the country, though I can’t think
why any one would take this trail unless they wanted to get away in
a hurry. Let’s spread out, and cover more ground. Even if we do find
the flivver, it won’t help us much. It’s a cinch the thieves aren’t
going to hang around it, once it stops; an’ it can’t go on forever.
How much gas did it have in the tank, Bug Eye?”

“Plenty, Mr. Manley. I filled her up just before I started.”

“Then the rustlers can lead us a merry chase. Now I have an idea
that they may have left one man to drive the flivver, so as to fool
us into following the tracks, while the other two--and I’ll bet
they’re the two we want to get--took a side path. Yep, boys, we
ought to separate. We can cover more ground then.”

“Say when, boss,” Nick Looker exclaimed. “We’ll rake this range with
a fine comb!”

“Well, let’s get started then! Every man for himself! Spread out! If
you get into trouble, fire three shots. But don’t get too far apart,
so the fellow next to you couldn’t hear them. I’ll be the center
man, and you can deploy on me. Open up now, boys, an’ let’s go!”

With a yell to the horses, the chase started anew. Teddy and Roy
took the left and right of Mr. Manley, each riding out straight for
a quarter of a mile, and then turning. The others rode the same
distance from the man nearest to him, until there was a long line
streaked across the prairie. The ground was fairly level here, and
there were few trees, the growth being mostly sage bush.

More clouds had obscured the face of the moon, making the night
dark. Roy tried to keep an even interval from his father and the man
on his right, but he found that this was impossible, so he rode
forward hoping he might catch a glimpse of the rustlers.

A slight grade rose ahead of him, and he urged his mount up it. A
little to his left he saw a small clump of trees. Deciding to ride
close to these, Roy pulled his horse over. As he did so, he uttered
an exclamation.

Out of the group of trees had ridden a man on horseback. He turned,
and saw Roy coming toward him. Wheeling his bronco about, he
re-entered the shadow of the grove.

Roy leaped his steed forward to the edge of the wooded section. He
heard the sound of a creaking saddle and turned swiftly. His hand
flashed down to his gun.