They will be condemning Doctor Dixon's experiment, by now. He'll be
blamed for what happened to me. The newspapers will yelp, "Young
Scientist Loses Mind As Result of Rash Experiment!"

They will be wrong. I didn't lose my mind. It would be much truer to
say that my mind lost _me_.

Let me go back. I was Fred Ellis, thirty years old, instructor in
psychology at Midwestern University. At least, that's who I thought I
was!

Doctor Francis Dixon, head of our department, was a dark, keen,
brilliant man who was out of place in those poky classrooms. But he and
John Burke, the assistant professor, carried on much private research.

Dixon's work was usually way over my head. His ideas were brilliant,
if unconventional. Burke, a blond young giant with a strong faculty
of imagination, understood him better than I did. I was the plodding,
patient type of scientist, I'm afraid.

But I intensely admired Dixon and listened with deep interest to his
theories and suggestions. One night, talking with Burke, he came out
with the most daring suggestion of all.

Burke had made the trite remark that "mind is just a function of the
physical body, after all."

"How do we know it is?" Dixon demanded. "All good little modern
psychologists repeat that, but how do we know? It may be that mind and
body are wholly different individual entities."

Burke gaped at him. "But that's going back to old-fashioned nonsense.
How could mind and body be different entities?"

"Ever go deep-sea fishing?" Dixon asked him unexpectedly.

"Fishing?" repeated Burke.

"Down off Florida you catch big sharks and sea-bass that have remoras,
or sucker-fish, a foot long solidly attached to their sides. The remora
is part of the shark, yet they're different entities.

"Termites have flagellates in their body who digest the wood the
termites eat. Leguminous plants live in mutually profitable partnership
with nitrogen-fixing bacteria, the plants fixing carbon and the
bacteria nitrogen."

"I'm not a sophomore," Burke said a little resentfully. "You can
mention symbiosis without defining it for me."

Dixon laughed.

"All right, I'm talking about symbiosis--the ability of two entirely
different species of creatures to live in closest conjunction, one
inside or attached to the body of the other."

He lighted a cigarette and looked at us.

"Suppose the mind and body also are two different species of living
creatures, two _utterly_ different species, living together in
symbiosis?"


CHAPTER


Of course the idea seemed a little crazy to me at first, and so it did
to Burke.

"That's a wacky theory, Dixon. You can see and handle a remora, but who
ever saw or handled an individual human mind?"

"Who ever saw or handled a radar beam?" retorted Dixon. "But we know
it's there. Maybe your mind falls into the same class. A living,
individual creature, not of ordinary matter but of non-material
photons."

I became so interested I ventured a question. "If my mind and body are
two different creatures, how come I don't know it?"

"Don't you know it?" he said. "You _do_ know it, Ellis. How many times
has your reasoning mind urged you to do one thing, while the instincts
of your body led you to do another? Mind and body are always at strife
in all of us--it's been so in all human history."

He seemed to kindle to his own idea.

"Why is it that of all animals, only homo sapiens had what we call a
conscious mind? The explanations of the biologists are pretty hazy,
for they don't really know the answer. Suppose the answer is that the
_human_ body is the only one in which the individual, living mind can
live in symbiosis?"

Burke was still unimpressed. "That's just the old dualistic theory of
Descartes, at bottom."

"The old has a habit of becoming the very new, in science," retorted
Dixon. "Doctor Alexis Carrel was a pretty modern and famous scientist.
And Carrel, speculating in one of his books on the riddle of mind,
suggested that a mind might be an immaterial being that somehow inserts
itself from outside into the human brain and dwells there."

I was deeply interested.

"Is there any way you could prove or disprove the theory, doctor?" I
asked.

Dixon shrugged. "How are you going to prove it? Forcing the living
mind temporarily out of its comfortable symbiotic partnership in the
body might prove it. But how can you force out a thing of immaterial
photons? Nothing but electric force could do it...."

That moment, as it turned out, was the beginning of the stunning events
that followed.

Until then, Dixon had been merely hypothesizing. But now his dark face
changed, and he was silent in intense thought.

"I believe," he said finally, "that it might be done, by amplifying the
electroshock treatment used on psychotic patients by Cerletti and Bini
in nineteen thirty-nine. You remember their patients could remember
nothing of elapsing time while under shock? Their minds must have been
out of their bodies for a moment!

"Suppose I increased the electroshock strength to force the mind out a
little longer? The subject, when he came back to normal, might then
remember his sensations as a disembodied mind."

Burke slowly nodded. "Sounds possible. But you'll never find out.
You've no one to test the idea on, and never will have."

I don't know why it was that I didn't hesitate a moment in speaking up.
I had not the slightest doubt.

"You can use me as your subject, doctor," I said.

I believe now it was my vain desire to emulate Dixon, my consciousness
of my own lack of brilliance, that made me seize a chance to
distinguish myself in an epochal experiment.

"You, Ellis?" Burke looked shocked.

But Dixon didn't. A little light leaped into his eyes as he looked at
me.

He liked me, I think. But that liking meant not a straw when compared
to the intensity with which he pursued any research.

"You know, of course, that it would be dangerous?" he warned. "The
object would be to force your mind free of your body for all of a few
minutes, then let it return so you can describe your sensations.

"This body-mind partnership, if it really exists, must be about the
closest symbiosis in existence. Tampering with the partnership might
have disastrous results."

Dixon didn't mean to do it, I'm sure. But just such solemn
discouragement as that was exactly what would add to the eagerness of a
young enthusiast like myself.

That very night, I wrote out a letter volunteering myself as subject in
the experiment and freely exonerating Dixon and Burke of any possible
unpleasant consequences.

Two nights later, Dixon had his preparations made. I think he rushed
things lest I lose my nerve. But I was more keen on the thing than
ever. Even if things _did_ go wrong, I saw my name in the books as a
haloed martyr of science.


CHAPTER


He had set up a simple generator whose output could be graduated
between 70 and 100 volts. I lay down on a table, and he and Burke
attached two rubber pads faced with copper to my temples, as the
electrodes.

Dixon repeated his final instructions.

"At the slightest crook of your finger we'll cut the current, Ellis. If
you feel any dangerous sensations, don't hesitate."

He called, then, "All right, Burke--the switches."

"I feel more like an executioner than a scientist," Burke growled.

The generator was already humming. Dixon fed the current so weakly at
first that I could feel only a tingle in my nerves.

"It'll take more than that," I told him, grinning.

He jumped his rheostats a little. The tingling in my nerves and brain
became much stronger.

I felt an odd, dizzy sensation. It got more pronounced as Dixon let me
have the current in stronger and stronger jolts.

The whole laboratory seemed to dim around me, even Dixon's dark,
watchful face blurring to my eyes.

For a moment, I felt panic. After all, there _was_ something gruesome
about trying temporarily to dissociate my mind from my body!

Dixon's voice came through the blur.

"All right, Ellis?" he asked.

Pride made me conquer my panic.

"Go ahead," I murmured.

[Illustration: "Go ahead," I murmured from the table, for pride had
made me conquer my terror.]

All consciousness of bodily sensation vanished in a whirling blur as
the jolts of current came faster and faster. I had a ghastly sensation
of _freedom_.

Can freedom be terrible? Freedom from your own body can--at least at
first. That was what I was feeling.

I seemed to float in a whirling, throbbing haze. Then my strange
sensations cleared a little.

I was still in the laboratory. But now I was floating several feet
above the table and the limp body of Fred Ellis!

I couldn't see, or hear, or use any other ordinary bodily sense. Yet
I _felt_ my surroundings as clearly as though I saw them, by means of
unguessable senses in my immaterial being.

I was still I, but somehow it was now a different "I." I felt connected
to the limp form of Fred Ellis below me only by a tenuous thread.

Dazed, bewildered by the change, as I hovered there I sensed a sudden
clear question from close by.

"Has your host died, comrade?"

I didn't hear that, and it wasn't in words. It was in thought or
thought-force that I automatically received.

In the same way, I was conscious now of another immaterial being like
myself hovering close to me. He couldn't be seen, any more than I
could, but he was there. And he was completely free, not connected as
I was to a lax human body.

"Has your host died?" he asked again.

Dazedly, without realizing what I said, I answered in thought.

"No, he is not dead. I am still linked to him."

"_Have you been here long, comrade?_" came the question. "I am Klon,
and I am newly-come from Aarl."

Aarl? That name was like a trigger in my hovering mind, unloosing a
strange dim flood of memory.

"I am T'Shal, and I came from Aarl ages ago," I exclaimed. "Only now do
I remember! There is horror here--"

_Crash!_

It all ended suddenly. I was Fred Ellis, dazedly opening my eyes on the
table. The thunderous crash had been merely the click of a switch.

"Ellis?" Dixon was sweating as he chafed my wrists. "Ellis, are you all
right?"

I stared at him in a frozen fashion.

"You brought me back into my body?"

"And just in time, I'd say!" exclaimed Burke. "You were in a ghastly
coma--I insisted we cut it short."

Dixon had seized eagerly on my words. "You mean, you were really out of
your body? Your mind was free for those moments?"

"Only partly free," I mumbled. "I was still linked to it. But even so,
I was just beginning to remember something--"


CHAPTER


It was fading in my mind, even as I tried to tell about it.
Frantically, I sought to grasp those vague, vanishing memories.

"Something about a place called Aarl! And I thought my name was T'Shal,
and--and I can't remember, now."

"Ellis, try to remember!" Dixon urged. "Think hard, man!"

The harder I tried, the more swiftly receded those fast-fading
memories. It was all gone already from my brain.

We talked it over for hours that night, after I had recovered from my
shakiness.

"We've stumbled onto experimental proof of the most revolutionary
theory in scientific history," Dixon said. "Proof that the mind is a
wholly different species and entity from the human body, and is merely
a symbiotic partner of that body.

"Good Heavens, think of all the things that it would explain! If you
could only remember more, Ellis! Think again--what was it about Aarl?"

Aarl? The name vibrated in my thoughts like something faint, far away,
heartbreaking.

Did you ever try to remember something and couldn't, yet the very thing
you couldn't remember made you feel sad? It was that way with me.

I knew that Aarl meant something to me, something wonderful and
terrifying. But I couldn't remember what it was.

"There's a possible explanation of your quick forgetfulness," said
Dixon finally. "The mind-entity, once it is inhabiting the human brain,
is so far overcome by the human animal's rudimentary nervous currents
that it is drugged, inhibited.

"That would explain why young children, whose human brains are not yet
fully developed, continually have strange, fanciful 'memories' of other
things, of queer places that they call fairylands."

Burke nodded thoughtfully.

"You mean that in infancy the mind-partner of the symbiosis is not so
inhibited and can still remember its own past? Maybe Wordsworth was
right:

    "'Our birth is but a sleep and a forgetting,
    The soul that rises with us, our life's star,
    Hath had elsewhere its setting,
    And cometh from afar.'"

"Something like that," Dixon affirmed, pondering. "And when the mind
gets almost free of the body-partner, as Ellis did, then it _can_
remember."

I told him, "If you had used a little stronger electroshock, if I'd
been free altogether, I know I could remember more."

Burke looked doubtful.

"What good would it do you, since you'd forget it all again when you
came back into your body?"

Dixon quickly figured an answer.

"If the free mind is a group of photons as we believe, it could
interrupt a sufficiently sensitive photoelectric beam and actuate a
relay to a telegraph-sounder. Ellis could signal us that way by the
Morse code. He could tell us right at the moment what he remembers,
_before_ he returns to his body and forgets."

"If you'll fix up such a device, I'll try the thing again!" I promised.

It was crazy of me to make that offer, I felt. The dim unearthliness
of my experience should have been enough for me.

But I was haunted by that most maddening of feelings, by a vain desire
to remember something forgotten.

Somehow, I felt that Aarl, where I had been T'Shal, was so vastly
important as to overrule any danger to my life as Fred Ellis. I had a
premonition of beauty and wonder and horror all waiting to burst upon
me--if I could only remember them!

So the next night, when I again took my place on the table, it was with
increased eagerness. Dixon had showed me the beam of photoelectric
force now crossing the room just above the table.

"You said that as a mind you were aware of locations and could move,
Ellis. Well, if you can move into this beam, it will actuate the
telegraph-sounder and signal us.

"Send us, if you're able, an exact description of just what you feel
and remember. We'll take it down--and when you return to your body, it
won't matter if you immediately do forget everything again."

He turned on the electroshock current, and I felt again that sharp
tingle in body and brain.


CHAPTER


Again, my senses blurred. The laboratory swam about me, I was whirling
through dimness.

The pressure of the jolting current mounted and mounted. I felt an
intolerable sense of strain--then a sharp, sudden release.

I was completely free of Fred Ellis' limp body now! I, T'Shal the
Aarlan, who had inhabited Ellis' body for thirty Earth years!

"Comrade, is it you again?" I recognized instantly the mental voice of
Klon, who had said he was newly-come from Aarl.

From Aarl? Memory began to rush over me, memory that was
heartbreakingly vivid.

I remembered Aarl! I remembered our world of supernal beauty and
splendor that lay far, far across the cosmos from this drab, heavy
little world Earth.

Aarl, world not of solid matter but of free electrons, floating like
a glorious sphere of light in the glare of a great white sun! Aarl,
wondrous globe of ever-shifting color, light and beauty!

And I was an Aarlan! I was one of the race that had evolved there as
individual, intelligent photon-groups--immaterial photon-beings living
immortally in our radiant, ethereal world!

"Comrade, I sense your trouble of spirit!" came the cry of Klon. "What
is wrong?"

"You have just come from Aarl, you say?" I cried. "You must go back
there, back to Aarl before you are trapped on this world!"

"Are you mad, comrade?" he asked wonderingly. "Why should I leave when
I have come to gather new experiences on this world?"

To gather new experiences? Yes, that was the passion of all us immortal
Aarlans. For ages, beating our way out through the cosmos on streams of
light, we had visited other worlds. We had entered the bodies of their
material creatures and had lived there with them in peaceful symbiosis,
garnering many rich new experiences.

And that was why we had come to this planet Earth, long ago. How well
I remembered now that I, T'Shal, had been one of that very band of
Aarlans who first had visited this planet!

"This world Earth must yield fascinating experiences," Klon was saying.
"For no Aarlan who came here has ever yet returned."

"You do not understand!" I cried. "When we came here first, we picked
a species of ape-creature as the most suitable symbiotic partners and
entered their brains in the usual way. We intended only our customary
temporary stay.

"But we were disastrously entrapped! This ape-species has no
true intelligence, but they have instincts of surpassing nervous
intensity--instincts of greed and lust and hatred. And that bestial
nervous influence warped the symbiosis we intended, distorted our own
intelligence, inhibited our thinking until we forgot all about Aarl!

"Yes, we forgot Aarl, forgot our own identities and thought of
ourselves only as the minds of these ape-like creatures! And each of
us, when his symbiotic partner died, remained so dazed and drugged that
he merely drifted on to another ape-host, another partner."

Klon's horrified thought came. "But then why is it that you are able to
remember now, T'Shal?"

"Because the shock of force that released me from my ape-host dissolved
the inhibiting effect and made full memory return to me!" I told him.

"What are we to do?" cried Klon. "Always, we have supposed that
symbiosis with these Earth-creatures must be richly rapturous, since
no Aarlan ever returned from here. Aarlans have come here in millions
for that reason, and more will come!"

"No more must come!" I told him. "You and I will return at once to Aarl
to warn all our race of the horrible trap of Earth. At least we will be
able to prevent any more of our race from coming here."

I added, "And before we leave, I will make an effort to save all the
millions of us who remain trapped here in the dazing symbiosis with the
ape-creatures. If I could make them all remember their true identity,
they might be able to break free of this bondage."