The Project Gutenberg eBook of The death crystal, by George O. Smith

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: The death crystal

Author: George O. Smith

Release Date: November 8, 2022 [eBook #69314]

Language: English

Produced by: Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online Distributed
             Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE DEATH CRYSTAL ***





              _One by one, forty of the Earth's greatest
            scientists vanished into that world beyond the
             universe--until one man, doomed by its fatal
              rays, carried humanity's last hope back the
            blinding, twisted corridors that led through--_

                           The DEATH CRYSTAL

                          By GEORGE O. SMITH

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
                    Super Science Stories May 1950.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]




                              CHAPTER ONE

                          The Shape of Danger


They looked at the crystal in horror.

It was the horror of the serpent, or of the Gorgon's head. They were
fascinated; in that moment not one of them could have torn his gaze
away. All work ceased. The noises in the concrete-walled room died
until the whish of breathing and the thumping of hearts could be
heard.

Then panic caught them, and fought against training. Panic cried,
_Run!_ and training said, _Remove yourself quickly._

With the motion-saving efficiency of the emergency drill, each man
turned from his position and walked rapidly towards whichever exit was
nearest.

Actually, they could not outrun the danger any more than one can duck
a rifle bullet or outrace the atomic bomb. But they went, five men and
one woman, out through the zigzag corridors towards a mirage of safety.

One man remained.

Dave Crandall stepped forward and picked the crystal from its place
in the evaporation dish. He turned, doused hand and crystal under
a faucet, and then dropped the crystal on an anvil. He hit it with
a heavy hammer. Anvil and crystal rang musically, and the crystal
rebounded and flew through the air unharmed.

Cursing under his breath, Dave Crandall darted, picked it up again, and
looked around wildly.

There were vats of acid handy; an electronic furnace glowed white-hot
through its slit; a tunnel gaped unexcitingly but in its depths were
the invisible radiations of the atomic pile. None of these would work
soon enough.

Dave turned to the desk. He flipped open the end of the pneumatic
message tube and popped the crystal into the chamber. There was the
_whroooom!_ of pumped air, a few tinkles as the crystal hit the sides
of the tube on its way down.

Then from somewhere outside the concrete-walled room came the awesome
blast. The wave-front traveled down the zigzag passages and Dave
thought he could almost see it. The roar deafened him.

Dave went out through the zigzag passage.

A mile across the plain, a billowing white cloud was rising.

Claverly greeted Dave. Claverly was a bit shaken, and more than a
little abashed. "The relay station," he said, pointing at the rising
cloud.

"Oh?" remarked Crandall. He asked, frowning, "Anybody in there?"

"No."

Crandall smiled wryly. "That's a relief," he said. "But I didn't
have time to ask where that tube went. I might have blown up the
administration building."

Claverly laughed. "About all you've done is to cut a large hole in the
coast-to-coast pneumo," he said. "No jury in the world would convict
you."

DeLieb came around from the other side of the building. "There," he
said, "but for the Grace of God--" pointing at the billowing pillar of
smoke. "Thanks, Dave. This makes you unique, you know."

"Unique?"

"You are the only living man who has seen one of those devils' rocks in
operation."

"We were all there," objected Dave, "and how about the Manhattan
Crystal?"

"In the first place, the Manhattan Crystal is furnishing New York with
electrical power--from a generating plant twenty miles outside New
York, telemeter-controlled, and completely unattended. Montrose and
Crowley and their associates who first made the crystal went up trying
to reproduce it at Brookhaven. So did Brookhaven. Harvard, Purdue,
Caltech, and Argonne went up trying to make one, too."

"But you were there, too, and you've seen it."

DeLieb nodded. "It is a six-sided crystal about three inches long, with
a pyramidal point at either end, and about three-quarters of an inch
across the hexagonal flats. It is clear with a trace of blue tint. So
much we know, Dave. _But what shape was it when you tossed it into the
tube?_"

"Cubical, and full of flashing red glints," said Dave.

"And why were we suddenly scared bright green?"

"Because it began to change shape before our eyes," said Dave.

"And it was still fluid when we--left."

"I think so," said Dave uncertainly.

DeLieb turned and went into the laboratory again, with the others
following. He inspected the anvil and straightened up with a wry smile.
There was the dent on the soft iron, made by the crystal under Dave's
blow. "That," said DeLieb, "is the impact of a hexagonal crystal
slightly distorted. A hexagonal form half-changed to a cubical shape.
So, Dave Crandall, you are the only man alive to have seen such a
crystal. Who knows the shape of the Manhattan Crystal by now?"

       *       *       *       *       *

Steps clicked along the other zigzags. Phelps came in through one.
"No hits," he said, "one run, and the only error was shutting off the
cross-country pneumo. Tough. But the country got along without the
shipment of short-lived radioisotopes before and it'll have to do
without them again until they get the tube put together. Nice going,
Crandall."

Behind him was Jane Nolan--Doctor Jane Nolan. Like her colleagues,
Jane Nolan was often quoted in texts, had made several contributions
to science, and was an authority on several subjects. She was not
a beautiful woman; but her quiet air sometimes permitted a rather
interesting personality to show through. Men forgot her mature thirty
years and her lack of breath-taking beauty and dated her; then found
themselves at once intrigued by her personality and completely baffled
by her quick mind--and then went elsewhere in search of wide-eyed
pulchritude.

Deep interest or honest admiration often lighted up her face and made
it handsome if not beautiful. She looked very attractive now as she
went to Crandall.

"That was brave," she said.

"Self-preservation," he said.

"We have that too," she replied with a slight smile. "And we also know
that we cannot outrun that sort of thing. But we ran."

He smiled at her cheerfully. "I'm not a scientist," he said. "I'm just
a newspaperman, remember? Perhaps I'm just too ignorant to realize the
degree of danger."

Jane Nolan shook her head. "You've either seen the remains or pictures
of them, of the other labs that failed. You know--"

"Look," he chuckled, "let's put it this way. We were dead ducks anyway.
The devil himself couldn't have outrun that explosion without jet
assistance." He turned to Claverly, "If I'd had any sense, I wouldn't
have tried to smash it. I should have known that belting it with a
hammer wouldn't have stopped it--if anything, it should have hastened
the explosion."

"I hardly think so," said Claverly thoughtfully. "Remember that the
crystal is not an explosive in itself. Or so we believe. Anyway--"

"Anyway, thanks to Dave, we still have our lab," said Jane. "Let's get
back to work."

Dave shook his head. There was no point in arguing with them. They
called him brave. Nuts! Nine great laboratories had gone skyward with
their complement of scientists, trying to reproduce the fabulous
Manhattan Crystal which was now furnishing the city of New York with
electrical power. And with the deadly record of nine to nothing against
them, the scientists continued to try. Theirs was the true bravery. It
was a deadly experiment, and one that was not permitted--

Dave looked startled. "I thought the government insisted that these
experiments be run by telemeter control?"

"They are."

"Then what in the hell were we doing here?" demanded Crandall.

"The crystal," said Claverly, "was developed last week. We'd done
everything but taste it by telemeter. It had been tested chemically,
electrically, mechanically, atomically, physically and about any other
way you can think of. We've had it white-hot and down to a half-degree
Kelvin. We've dropped it, hit it, subjected it to electrostatic and
electromagnetic fields, dunked it in everything from aqua to zerone,
looked at it and through it, bombarded it with every radiation possible
from the pile, and let it sit on a glass-topped platform to meditate.
We believed it was safe; that we'd been successful. We came in to hook
it up and test its power output, like the Manhattan Crystal. You came
along."

Dave nodded. The message in his pocket told him that Merion Laboratory
had successfully created a replica of the Manhattan Crystal and if he
so desired, he could be present at its testing.

He said slowly, "It seems as if there might be something important
here."

"What?"

"I hate to suggest it; it sounds silly."

"So do a lot of things," said Claverly. "Go on."

"I'm out of my depth here," said Dave. "But I've read of the so-called
human aura. The sort of thing that gives certain gardeners a 'green
thumb' and makes other men capable of curing a headache by merely
rubbing the head with the fingertips. Is this sort of thing merely
superstition or has it any basis in fact?"

Claverly frowned. "We don't like to answer such questions," he said.
"But I'm being honest with you, Dave. The reason we don't like to
answer is that we are not too certain. The best answer is maybe, and
who knows?"

"So the crystal sat here and took all sorts of radiation, treatment,
investigation, and the like. Then when the group of us assemble,
blooey!"

Claverly looked at Dave. "What do you suggest?"

"I suggest that the crystal be worked on by one person at a time.
Perhaps there's a critical mass of life-force--?"

"Sounds fantastic. You'll keep this out of your paper, Dave?"

"You bet--until we prove it. I don't want to sound any crazier than I
am." He looked around. "I'm going to file a yarn on the explosion," he
said. "Where's a typewriter and a telephone?"

Claverly said, "Jane, you show him. The rest of us will mix another
batch and make us a new crystal. Then--" He left it unfinished.

Jane Nolan nodded. "Come on, Dave."

       *       *       *       *       *

She led him to one of the jeeps that the laboratory crew used, and they
started back towards the main collection of buildings.

"Dave, I like you."

Dave blinked. She laughed. "Does my directness bother you?"

"Not exactly. But--"

"It's caused me a lot of grief in the past; it's one of the reasons why
I've never been a howling social success. However, saying and doing
what I think makes a fine physicist out of me."

"That I believe," said Dave. The jeep drew up to one of the buildings.
"Now," he said, "where's that typer?"

"In the office. Or better, we have a few empties; maybe you'd like to
use one until you go back to Chicago?"

"That would be good," he told her. "I'm going to stay right here until
you folks get this problem solved--or go up taking Merion Laboratory
with you. Maybe," he said cheerfully, "I'll be able to use your typer
to write the description of that, but it's unlikely."

Jane faced him as he climbed out of the jeep. "We've got a job to do. I
know it sounds like a chunk of lousy script, but the bunch of us are
devoted to the job of increasing human knowledge. So we're ready to
accept the danger. But there's no reason why you should risk your hide.
You can write from here and be safe."

"I wouldn't miss the fun for anything," he said. "When will the new
crystal be ready?"

"Tomorrow morning."

Jane climbed out after him. "I'll arrange for that office," she said.
"Come on."

From the window of his office Dave Crandall watched Jane drive off in
her jeep. Then he turned to the desk and put through a long-distance
telephone call.

"Meteridge speaking."

"Dave Crandall, doc."

"Yes, David. How're things going?"

"About the same."

"Fine. Keep the chin up."

"Doc--there's nothing can be done?"

"Five years ago we could have--"

"I couldn't see it."

Meteridge swore. "And now, like everybody else, you've changed your
mind too late?"

"No, doc. I haven't changed my mind. I just wish it had been different."

"So do we all. But five years ago--"

"I know. I know. Five years ago you could have given me twenty years
more, but it meant staying on my backside for the whole route. I took
six years of active life in favor of twenty years as a total loss. I'd
do it again."

"I suppose you would. So would I, to tell you the truth."

Dave chuckled. "So I just called to tell you the usual. I'm okay and
feeling no pain."

"Good. Keep me informed. And when you start feeling the pangs, let me
know. We can give you some relief."

They hung up and Dave, deliberately putting the thought out of his
mind, went to work on his news story. It was the sort of thing that
a stable man does not dwell upon; within him, burning at his vitals,
was a fission fragment. Dispersed, it was. Too widespread for a
single removal; years and years of almost continuous operations and
convalescence would remove the danger, but it would leave Crandall abed
most of his active life.

He--and Doctor Meteridge--knew that he had been no hero when he stayed
behind with the crystal. At the worst it had meant an instant death; at
the best, saving the lives of other people. What could Dave lose?

Nothing but a forfeited life.




                              CHAPTER TWO

                         The Crystal Phantoms


"Now," said Claverly, peering through the television hookup that
brought him an image of the crystal, "we are ready." His voice came
over the speaker tinnily.

"It's been checked?"

"Definitely. We're all ready."

DeLieb manipulated the controls as the rest of them watched through the
large projection screen. Clawed arms came from the side of the screen
and picked the crystal out of the dish. They carried it over to the
mouth of a pneumatic tube, where it was dropped into a carrier. There
was a _whoosh!_ and the carrier disappeared.

The scene on the television screen switched abruptly to Claverly, who
opened the end of the tube and removed the crystal. He held it up for
them to see.

"So here we are," said Claverly. "The crystal and myself, removed from
the critical mass of human radiation--if that means anything. Watch me
closely. I am going to test this crystal for power output."

Claverly turned aside and clamped the crystal in a holder. He turned
away, then, and--

There was a flash that filled the telescreen. It did not blind the
onlookers, for the total output of the projection system would not
furnish so much light. But the flash at the transmitting end paralyzed
the orthicon, and once the phosphor of the receiving tube ceased to
glow, the screen went dark. The orthicon at the far end of the line was
no longer working. There was no roar of sound from the speaker. Just an
electric crackle, and then the hiss of the live circuit.

"Gone!" said DeLieb explosively.

Phelps turned from the mounted telescope and said, "I saw a flicker
from the windows, but the building is still there."

"Then it didn't blow," said Jane Nolan.

Crandall caught a faint flicker on the telescreen. The bare highlights
were there, just coming up above the black level. "Claverly!" said Dave.

They turned. The tall scientist was visible, standing still as they had
seen him before. Motionless, like a strobo-flashed picture.

Dave raced down, out of the building and into the parked jeep. He
shoved the jeep into gear and took off with a roar. His tires threw
dust as he raced across the intervening three miles to the remote
laboratory.

Claverly was there. A phantom Claverly; a three-dimensional image,
unmistakable as the man himself. Transparent, however; the bricks of
the far wall could be distinguished through it.

The image was fading, but so very gradually that Dave had to watch
carefully to be certain.

       *       *       *       *       *

"The crystal is still here," said Dave. "It seems unchanged."

"We see," replied DeLieb. "The video is working again."

"So--what was Claverly's next move to be?"

"Wait!" cried Jane. "Be careful; Claverly--"

"Someone has to do it," said Dave. "If you'll give me directions--?"

Phelps shook his head at the rest and said: "Dave, if we could
manipulate that thing from here through these last few motions,
Claverly wouldn't have been there."

"Forgot that," said Dave unhappily. "So now what?"

"I'm coming over. You leave."

"Check--but don't like it."

Dave was less than a thousand yards away from the building when Phelps
entered. His jeep was not equipped with radio or telephone so he did
not know what went on. All he knew was a swift burst of brightness,
perceptible against the bright sky. Dave stopped the jeep in half its
length and turned it to go racing back.

Phelps was there, too. A phantom image standing near the image of
Claverly, but apparently more solid. Claverly was fading; Phelps was a
fresh image.

"Same damned thing!" cried Crandall into the microphone.

"I'm coming--" started DeLieb, but Dave stopped him with a firm "No!"

Then he ran the jeep back to the main buildings, thinking furiously. By
the time he arrived, he had an idea....

       *       *       *       *       *

"This is no random thing," he said. "This is malicious."

"Malicious?" asked Jane. "What do you mean?"

"How many nuclear laboratories have we lost, trying to reproduce this
crystal?"

"Nine."

"And how many top-flight scientists?"

"Almost forty."

"The forty we can least afford to lose," added Dave. "Can you think of
an easier way to sap the scientific strength of a country than to give
it something that performs miracles--and also kills?"

"Ah," said Jane, shaking her head. "But there's a hole in that
reasoning. No one gave us anything. We discovered the Manhattan Crystal
by accident--in a restricted laboratory and under the most rigid
supervision."

"Accident, hell! No doubt a young and innocent mouse thinks it's
an accident when he finds a piece of cheese. The crystal is the
cheese--and the trap. Kids, we're being taken for a ride. Give 'em a
chance to lop off a gang of you and a lab at the same time and they
do it. Give them no chance to get the lab, and they'll wait to get a
scientist. Offer 'em a cluck of a newsman, of no scientific learning,
and they wait until they have a chance at an important scientist. The
crystal is still there."

"I'll go--"

"DeLieb, sit still. Claverly went, Phelps went. You go, and the next
will be Nolan or Howes."

"So what do you suggest?"

"I'm no scientist. Teach me what to do. I'll do it."

"You'll die."

"I'll prove a point," said Dave. "And I won't die! I'll prove to you
that anybody but a top scientist can tinker all day with that thing
without danger. If you think I'm wrong, remember that I was there once
and came back. Now--what do I do?"

Howes laughed bitterly. "If that were as simple as winding an alarm
clock or grinding the valves on a gas engine, we'd have no problem,
Dave."

"You can tell me the motions; you can tell me what to do. You can coach
me at the job, and with training--hell, fellers, you don't have to know
organic chemistry to mix a cake and men have performed operations with
a jackknife at sea, with directions by radio. I'm checked out in a
B-108, and any man who can keep his eyes on seventy meters, a hundred
and twelve switches, forty levers, sixty-seven pushbuttons, and drive
the damned thing with his free hand at the same time ought to be able
to learn whatever this job requires." He looked around him. "And in the
meantime, we'll let that crystal sit there and simmer, waiting for a
nice, ripe physicist to come and get stuck!"

"It will take days," said Jane thoughtfully.

"Better days than lives," said Dave sharply.

"Okay," said DeLieb. "You certainly can do no harm. You may do some
good. We'll try it your way."

For the next ninety-six hours, Dave Crandall got a total of nine hours
of sleep. He worked in another replica of the remote lab, using similar
instruments. He had not the foggiest notion of what he was doing, but
he learned the manual dexterity necessary to do it. He didn't know
what the meters meant, but he learned how to read them. He couldn't
understand why he must do thus and so when such and such a meter read
to a certain value, but he learned that, too. He became a trained human
primate, an animal who knew that four raps plus four raps equalled
eight raps; a chimpanzee trained to drive an automobile.

Not that Dave was ignorant, unintelligent, or untutored. Dave was
college, postgrad, and a writer. Dave knew as much present-day science
as any layman. He wrote science articles for his paper, was constantly
exposed to science, and a lot of it took. But this science was as far
beyond the kind he knew as the jet plane is beyond the Wright Brothers'
original model.

Then DeLieb told him, "Dave, you're ready."

"Let's go."

"Not tonight."

"Why waste time?"

"You're tired. I'm tired. We're all tired, if you want to finish the
conjugation. Tonight we loaf and rest and get a full night's sleep.
Tomorrow we work. This is the royal edict."

"I vote yea," laughed Jane Nolan. "Come, ambitious one. On nine hours'
sleep in four days, you should be easy to handle."

Dave shrugged. DeLieb looked askance. "Jane, if you take him dancing,
we'll all kill you."

"You wouldn't have to," she said. "I'd be dead already. No, I'm taking
Dave out to the farm where he can see stars and breathe fresh air, and
loaf on long grass."

       *       *       *       *       *

Jane's mother, forewarned, piled the dinner table high, and Dave was
fed to the bursting point. They walked under the stars, afterwards, and
then sprawled on the long grass, looking at the sky.

"You're quite a guy, Dave," said Jane.

"Probably the only one of my kind in existence," he said solemnly.
"Most men have eight eyes, you know. I've only got two."

"Blue, aren't they?"

"Brown," he corrected. "All two of them."

"They're blue."

"Brown."

"Dave, I'm a qualified observer and I recall them as blue!"

"Wishful thinking. Probably your first love had blue eyes."

Jane lit a match and held it over him for an instant. "Blue," she said.

"Are you going to believe your eyes or what I tell you?" he demanded.

"My eyes," she said. "Just because I happen to think you're quite
special, I don't necessarily believe everything you say."

"What's so special? I'm just an ordinary sort of guy. Most of the
things I learned in school haven't been much use to me. I drink too
much and smoke too much, go to church far too little--if at all--and
have no immediate hope for mankind."

"You're an idealist."

"No cigar. Cynic, yes. But idealist--?"

"You are," she said. "You are also some sort of human dynamo. You come
as a newspaperman to report on our doings and end up marching yourself
into danger and almost running the research group."

"Think of the story I'll be able to write," he said.

"And if you don't--?"

He laughed. "I'm in no danger," he said.

"I hope you aren't."

"Better me than someone who might be able to solve this thing."

"I don't think so."

"I'm no loss to civilization, Jane."

"That's your fault," she told him, half-angry. "You could be a great
asset if you'd only try."

"And what form of attempt does this require?"

"Stop playing cynic. We don't need people to tell civilization that it
has a dirty back yard or a few rotten beams in the cellar. What we need
is a few men with ideals to tell us how to clean up the yard and how to
bolster the rotten stringers. Set your sights on some goal, and then
settle down to work for it."

Dave groaned. "How do you start settling down after thirty-five years
of hell-raising?"

"Do you want to know?"

"I've often wanted to know."

"Get married, Dave."

"Who'd have me?"

"I would. Marry me, Dave."

"Lord, no!" he exploded.

"I expected a refusal," she said softly. "I didn't expect quite such a
vigorous rejection."

"I'm not rejecting you," he said earnestly. "You're a fine woman,
Jane."

"Who was she?" Jane asked.

"She? Who?"

"The girl that broke your heart."

Dave laughed. "I'm not carrying any torch," he told her. He leaned on
one elbow and looked down at her. The starlight was faint, but he could
see her well enough. "In fact, Jane, under other circumstances I might
get quite soft-headed about you."

"Then why not?"

He flopped back and stared at the sky. "Jane, you've accused me of
being brave. This is damned foolishness. I'm not brave. I've got about
six months to live, and I'm told the end will not be pleasant. I'd
prefer to go black in a hurry, doing something that couldn't be done by
a man with his life ahead of him. That isn't bravery; it's just cutting
clean the end of a well-frayed rope."

"Who says so?" demanded Jane.

"The famous Dr. Thomas Meteridge."

"He might be wrong."

Crandall chuckled. "He's seldom wrong. Fact is, Jane, I've to kick off
in six months, otherwise Old Doc Meteridge is a quack and a charlatan."

"He may be wrong."

Dave found her hand and held it over his side. "Feel warm? That's a
collection of fission products, tossing all sorts of junk around."

After a moment she said, "Some men wait for death complacently; some
spend their remaining time roistering; and Dave Crandall spends his
time doing dangerous jobs for humanity. Now tell me that you're not an
idealist, Dave."

"I--"

"Oh, stop arguing," she said. She still held the hand that had pressed
hers over his side. Now Jane caught it in a hard grip and pulled,
rolling him towards her. She met him halfway, missed his lips on the
first try, and then made contact as her free arm went around his
shoulders. Dave's was a startled response at first.

"Who's arguing?" he asked after a moment. He added his free arm to the
embrace and held her to him.

The stars above them whirled a quarter way across the sky--unnoticed.




                             CHAPTER THREE

                            The Other World


Crandall awoke to the faint sounds of farm life and spent a few sleepy
moments wondering where he was. The low of a cow, the creak of a
windmill, and the bustle of activity in another part of the house;
the sigh of a free wind and the whisper of leaves--none of these were
indigenous to his normal habitat and it annoyed him until the sleep
left him and he recalled.

Days of hard work and too little sleep, the relaxation of the farm for
an evening. Jane. Jane!

Crandall swore mildly. He became introspective and carefully analyzed
his feelings, even though he knew that he was hopelessly incapable
of coming to an honest solution about himself. His glands and his
intellect were at wide variance. He had no right to ask for nor could
he offer love.

Dave growled at himself and climbed out of bed. A cool shower helped;
he was glad that the Nolan farm was not of the older variety. Here
at least was farm life with almost every comfort of urban living. He
dressed and then went down the stairs slowly.

"Sleepyhead," Jane called as she saw him. "It's nearly nine o'clock."

"Middle of the night," he said.

"Dad and Mom have been up for hours."

"And you?"

"Positively minutes." Jane came to him, face upraised. He kissed her
and momentarily forgot his troubles.

But it all ended too soon. Breakfast was leisurely, and then they were
off, back to Merion.

They arrived at the laboratory in an hour, and then the bustle of
activity herded Dave's introspective feelings out of his mind.

He discovered that the night of relaxation had sharpened his mind. He
ran through the program once more in the remote lab, and then they
announced that he was ready to try the real thing.

Dave went to the jeep. Jane followed.

"Dave--be careful."

"As possible," he agreed. He kissed her and then started off towards
the remote lab that still held the crystal clamped in the electrodes.

_They_ wanted physicists, huh? He'd show them, whoever they were. He'd
fox them. The trick was completely incomprehensible, but however they
did it, it was as neat a program of treachery as had been invented in
all history. In an earlier day the enemy went for the leaders, the
generals and the admirals and the kings and emperors. Now it was the
engineers and physicists, for it was science that carried victory. The
most brilliant military strategist was a mere cork bobbing on the rim
of a whirlpool if he were not equipped with the latest and best that
could come from applied physics.

But Dave was not a physicist. He was just a scribbler of articles, an
occasional writer of fiction. So Dave was not the man _they_ wanted.
Let them sit and chew their fingernails while he, a zero quantity as
far as they were concerned, toyed with the crystal. It wouldn't be
practical to waste the crystal on him, any more than it was practical
to hurl a can of SPAM[1] at a convoy escort.

[Footnote 1: For Self Propelled Atomic Missile: a humorous contraction
used in a novel, "Murder of the U.S.A.," by Will F. Jenkins, shortly
after World War II. When self-propelled guided missiles came into
being, General Lansdowne conferred Jenkins' appellation upon them and
the name has remained.--G.O.S.]

Dave arrived at the remote lab and went to work. They checked him
through the video and the sound channel both ways, and then Dave turned
toward the crystal.

"The power," he said, "is being built up, as you can hear in the
background, the generators are groaning a bit under the initial heavy
load. The--ah--gaussmeter is rising up the scale. It occurs to me
that the boys on the other side of this might well be chewing their
fingernails at the moment. If I've got this thing figured right, _they_
can see into this lab and know me and who I am--and possibly what I am
doing. Maybe they've even figured out the why of it.

"Now, the next item is something I've been keeping quiet about. I doubt
that _they_ can read minds, but I'm pretty sure they can hear us and
watch us. So I've kept quiet until now.

"As Dr. Thomas Meteridge can tell you, I've been given about six months
to live. So I have nothing to lose, especially if I can prove a point.
I've claimed stoutly that _they_ aren't interested in anything but
physicists, and that a tyro would be safe out here. But it's still
possible that I was wrong.

"As you'll note, I've already got farther than either Claverly or
Phelps. I think that if I kept my mouth shut now, I'd be allowed to
finish the job. But--I think I have a clue to the identity of the
enemy, and the method they're using to destroy our top scientific
talent!"

He paused. "Of course, I could be bluffing. But I don't think _they_
can afford to take that chance. So, in a minute, when I start to tell
you what I think I know, they'll have to decide...."

"Dave," cried Jane, "what chance have you got?"

"A fair chance," he said. "We've got them spread nicely across the
horns of a dilemma. If _they_ do grab me, it will prove that there's an
enemy alien at work. If they don't grab me, I'll solve their secret--"

[Illustration: As the crystal flashed, he vanished....]

The crystal flashed pearly-white. Again it paralyzed the orthicon
and crackled in the loudspeaker. It blinded Dave momentarily, but he
shouted, "I'm still here!"

He heard a cry from the far end of the sound system. It faded rapidly.

       *       *       *       *       *

As his eyesight returned, Dave looked around curiously. The laboratory
was still around him, but it had the same semi-ghostly appearance that
Claverly and Phelps had had. Of the images of the two physicists Dave
could see nothing. They had been there, faintly visible, when he had
gone in. Now they were gone. Dave looked at the workbench. He passed a
hand through it. He stamped on the floor and found that he was stamping
_through_ the floor; he was actually standing on a semi-smooth surface
a few inches below it.

"Damn!" he swore. He looked around. The concrete walls of the building
were heavy and thick; he could not see clearly through them. He walked
forward, hands outstretched, and saw his hands enter the wall. He
walked through the wall, and felt a slight resistance, as though he
were walking through water. He burst through the far side and the
released pressure pitched him headlong.

Once outside, Dave looked around. In the ghostly distance he could see
the main laboratory building and the jeep bearing Jane, DeLieb, and
Howes. They came to the building and Dave ran to meet them.

"I'm here," he called. He screamed it. He yelled at the top of his
voice. Jane walked through him. Her face was broken, tears filled her
eyes, and Dave tried desperately to get her attention. But she walked
through him and went on. They went in the door; Dave walked back
through the phantom wall and met them inside.

"Dave!" cried Jane. She ran across the room and reached--then recoiled,
her face twisted in horror.

"Like Claverly, like Phelps," she whispered.

"Like hell!" yelled Dave. "Dammitall, I'm here!"

"Gone!" said Jane.

"I'm not gone!" snapped Dave. But a still voice inside him said that he
was. He looked carefully at the place Jane watched with horror-filled
eyes. He could see nothing. Then he went to Jane and peered into her
eyes. The pupils were clear. Dave snorted. If he could not see the
image of himself that Jane saw, there was no reason why he could see a
possible reflection of that image in her pupils.

"So he proved it," said DeLieb.

"And so we continue, knowing that something or someone is maliciously
attacking us," said Howes.

"It's mine," said Jane in a flat voice.

"No--" said DeLieb.

"I want to follow him," she said.

"Don't be a fool!" yelled Dave.

He ran to the crystal and slapped at it. It hurt. With a glad cry, Dave
pried at it with his fingers. The clamping electrodes held it firm--and
he could not touch them, for they were as thin and tenuous as the
concrete wall through which he had walked. Only the crystal was solid
both _there_ and _here_.

Dave smiled sourly. If he was dead, then this was a fine psychological
hell. Here he was watching friends and a loved one marching into deadly
danger, listening to their grief and their dangerous plans, while he
was completely helpless to guide them.

He felt the crystal move slightly under his straining fingers. Wrapping
a handkerchief about his fist, Dave punched at the crystal. It gave--or
on the other side, the clamping electrodes gave. At any rate, it was
loose.

He hit it again and jarred it.

"The crystal!" cried Jane. "It's moving!"

"Blow-up!" yelled DeLieb.

But this time there was no panic. Howes cut the energizing power with a
flick of his hands across the toggle switches. DeLieb clamped down on
the electrodes with a hand and spun the wingnuts that held it with the
other. Jane Nolan grabbed at the crystal as it came free and turned to
the pneumatic delivery tube.

But Dave reached out a hand and snatched it from her.

Jane cried in pain and fear, and watched the crystal make three long
swoops towards the concrete wall--Dave had grabbed it and started to
run outside. The crystal was wrenched from his fingers as he went
through the wall. It fell to the floor, and all three physicists
swooped down upon it.

Jane came up with it and popped it into the pneumatic tube.

It rattled thrice and was gone, racing down the tube end over end,
visible to Dave as it raced out of reach.

"It wants physicists," breathed DeLieb.

"But it's gone now."

"And so is Dave," cried Jane.

"Dammit," snapped Dave. Then he gave up, because he knew the utter
futility of trying to make them hear him.

But there was a way!

The crystal extended through both worlds. All Dave had to do was to get
the crystal and use it as a stylus against some surface in the other
world.

He turned to follow the pneumatic tube towards the place where the
crystal had gone. He was not more than a hundred yards down the length
of the tube when the sky blinded him from a couple of miles away,
and then the air roared, and then when vision returned he could see
a pillar of white smoke billowing skyward. _They_ had destroyed the
crystal!

       *       *       *       *       *

Dave stopped to think.

Clearly, the exploding crystal was as dangerous on this side as it was
on the other. That meant that no one could stand close by and watch the
thing to be sure of which physicists they got--unless they used some
sort of television hookup.

So Dave retraced his steps to the laboratory and inspected it. He
saw nothing, and so began to feel his way through the walls of the
building. He became engrossed in this job; it was both interesting and
a bit terrifying to go walking through walls and feeling along the
insides of beams and rafters. The building was a sort of thick phantom.
Not only were the walls transparent, but the pipe lines, electrical
wiring, nails, and other normally hidden bits of construction were
visible within them. And walking along the length of a wall with a
shoulder on either side, one in one room and one in the other, was
disconcerting as well as amusing.

The heavy concrete-block walls, set up for radiation barriers, were
wider than Crandall's shoulder-spread, and he could walk through their
length completely enclosed in the hard concrete. Here it was eerie,
too, for encased in the concrete were electrical wires and pipes, to
Dave no heavier than the concrete through which he walked, but none the
less clearly visible.

So Dave inspected the remote lab, walking down the walls and through
the pipes and wires that stretched through the house like a spider's
web, and he saw no evidence of espionage--

--until he caught his throat under a wire that should have been as
tenuous as the others, but which almost throttled him.

Dave bounded back, clutching at his throat and swearing soundly.

Then he realized!

And forgetting his throat, Dave followed the wire to one of the remote
video and audio sets. He pulled it aside--and it split into two
complete sets! There were two television cameras, identical in every
way, one in Dave's world, one in the everyday world, placed in perfect
register!

His proof!

His friends had gone; obviously back to their laboratory to prepare
another crystal. Here he could get one: their next one. Then he could
communicate with them and start planning a counter-offensive.

Dave looked across the plain towards the main laboratory building, and
shrugged. If he had a crystal now, all he could do would be to let them
know he was alive and on the job, but had no information. On the other
hand, he had fouled up the television camera in the remote lab, and it
seemed likely that there would be a repairman coming along to see what
was wrong.

Just where Claverly and Phelps were in this mess Dave didn't know.
But he assumed that soon after their projection into this cockeyed
half-world, the enemy had come along to collect them both.

Dave blinked at a sudden fantastic thought: would the flashing of a
crystal send him back to his own world, or toss him along into another
one?

An interesting thought--to be pursued later. Right this moment the
thing to do was to lie doggo until the enemy arrived to take Dave in
tow. This time, instead of a baffled scientist, they were attempting to
catch a gent who was more interested in being alive than in figuring
out where he was.

Had Dave been a pure scientist, he would have been amazed and baffled
by this half-world. The whys and wherefores would have bothered him to
the exclusion of other considerations, and he would have been standing
there trying to figure it all out when the enemy came along to collect
him. Instead, Dave was still alive, or felt that he was, and that was
enough for him. Someone else could figure out how and why; his was the
line of action; so long as he was able, he was going to continue to
live and fight.

So when the helicopter dropped down out of the sky near the remote
laboratory and disgorged a man carrying a rifle, Dave, the quarry, was
sprawled behind a slight ridge in the half-world's terrain, watching
through a cleft in the stone outcrop.




                             CHAPTER FOUR

                        The Struggle for Earth


The man with the rifle prowled around the ship, looking carefully out
across the plains.

Then, angrily, he turned and said something at the door of the
helicopter, and a second head appeared. There was a short discussion
that Dave could not hear, and then the second man came out carrying
a tool kit and headed for the lab. The first man got back into the
helicopter and took off towards the main building.

Dave nodded. It was reasonable to suppose that Claverly, and then
Phelps, after finding themselves in this half-world alone, had gone
back to the main laboratory to see if they could raise the attention of
their friends. Dave himself could have been expected to follow, running
after the jeep that had taken the others back to their lab. The hunter
expected to find Dave wandering disconsolately around the other lab.

When the helicopter had disappeared, Dave arose and scuttled across the
plain towards the building he had left. He felt like a battleship on a
clear ocean in broad daylight trying to slink unseen behind an enemy,
but there seemed no way to avoid it. At any rate, the workman was
paying no attention to his surroundings.

Within the walls of the laboratory, the workman was unlimbering his
tool kit. He was an efficient workman. It was his job to repair the
television camera and it was his cohort's job to track down and dispose
of Dave.

He went to work on this basis and ignored the possibility that Dave
might be stalking him--until Dave came silently up behind him and
kicked the small sectional ladder out from beneath the workman's feet.
Dave's fist came plunging through the windmill of flying arms and legs
and connected solidly beneath the workman's ear. Startled, off-balance,
and then slugged, the workman came to earth with a dull thud and
sprawled motionless. Dave snarled and made doubly sure with a thrusting
heel-kick against the workman's jaw and throat. The workman was not the
first man to die from such a kick.

Then, in a matter of minutes, Dave was wearing the dead workman's shirt
and trousers and was plying the tools on the television camera deftly.
Dave had not wrecked the thing, he had just swung his weight against
its moorings and displaced it. The problem was simple, and was handled
by a couple of adjustable end-wrenches. It could have been done by
sheer strength, but not with the desired precision. So Dave loosened
the nuts that held the flexible couplings and slid the camera back into
its original perfect registry with the camera in the real world. He was
tightening the nuts again when he heard the helicopter returning.

Dave stooped and packed the tools back in the kit, folded the
collapsible ladder and stowed it atop the tools, and then stood up and
waved at the pilot.

The helicopter landed. The pilot got out and called, "Have you seen
him?"

This was in a foreign tongue that Dave understood, and could speak
acceptably.

"He jumped me," called Dave, pointing with his toe at the inert figure
on the floor beside him.

The pilot looked and scowled. "Dead?"

"No!" grunted Dave, turning his back on the pilot, who was approaching.
He scooped up the tool kit with his left hand and walked rapidly to
get out of range of whatever loudspeaker system the enemy had in the
laboratory. He strode thirty feet towards the pilot, who also came
towards Dave about the same distance. Then--

"You're not--"

"Up!" snapped Dave, dropping the tool kit and pulling the captured
revolver out of its holster.

The pilot snarled and made a side-swinging fadeaway motion, bringing
the rifle up from its under-arm position. The pilot fired and the slug
snapped past Dave's head. Dave fired and winged the pilot in the right
shoulder, spinning the man around and dropping him to the ground.

Then Dave raced forward, made a long leap, and landed, kicking the
rifle away with one heel and planting the toe of the other foot cruelly
in the armpit of the wounded shoulder.

Pain crazed the pilot and he writhed on the ground, half-conscious.
When he came to, Dave had his knees and ankles trussed with friction
tape and was winding his free arm against his body with more tape.

The pilot mouthed some unprintables.

"Shut up!" snapped Dave.

"Bah!"

Dave backhanded the pilot across the face. The face writhed in pain and
the eyes half-closed again. Dave tore the sleeve from the shirt and
bound the bullet wound crudely.

"Now," he said harshly, "you'll live if you behave. It ain't painless,
but you'll live--if you want to."

"You can't get away with this."

"No?"

"We'll get you sooner or later--"

"Think you'll live to see it?"

"Yes."

"You're wrong again, chum."

"Bah! We know your kind, all of you. Self-centered and egotistical, not
one of you would care to die for his fellow man. We--"

Dave snorted scornfully. "During the last time we got in a scrap to
prove that we're not as sloppy as you think, I took on a load of
fission products. I don't much care whether you kill me quick right now
or whether you let me die six months from now. I'm a dead man anyway.
But in the meantime, little pawn of the superstate, I might be able to
foul you up because I have nothing to be afraid of--but failure!" Dave
let that sink in, although he doubted whether it made much impression.
Then he demanded, "What do you know about this?"

"Nothing."

Dave joggled the wounded arm. "Are you certain?"

"You can't torture it out of me," said the pilot between gritted teeth.

"Maybe I can scare it out of you," said Dave. He stood up and lifted
the pilot by hooking his left hand under the windings of tape. He
dragged the man along the ground to the helicopter and slung him into
the passenger's seat. Then Dave went around and climbed into the pilot
seat and wound up the motor. He snapped off the radio and inspected the
dashboard carefully to be sure that all radiating equipment was dead;
he did not wish to be followed by any direction-finding equipment.

Then he drove the helicopter for two solid hours north until he came to
a piney forest. He dropped the ship slantwise through the forest for
a mile and came to earth in a little glade. The wheels of the 'copter
rested on the half-world surface a few inches below the apparent ground.

       *       *       *       *       *

"Now, my friend, I'm going to show you a few things that may prove to
you that we're not as stupid as you think. For one thing, I, an unarmed
man in a strange world, have succeeded in killing one of your buddies,
wounding you, and making off with your helicopter. I've succeeded in
escaping to a place where it may be difficult--if possible at all--to
find us. Third, I've established the fact that you are not carrying any
means of communicating to the real world on this 'copter."

"Oh, brilliant," said the pilot.

"It was," nodded Dave. "You see, we're a bunch of mechanical geniuses,
which you've always admitted. So I postulate some sort of mechanical
linkage through these devil's crystals of yours. A pencil, perhaps,
with the barrel in one world and the magazine in the other world,
coupled between them with a bushing made of a crystal. Maybe a radio
set with bushings in the dials, and a crystal between the this-world
diaphragm and the real-world electrical element. But if we were
carrying anything of that nature I'd have felt resistance as we passed
down through this forest. So--?"

"Why don't you kill me and forget it all?" asked the pilot.

"I am compassionate, sympathetic. A lover of mine enemy. When smitten
upon one cheek, I turn the other cheek for a second wallop. Since
you've had only one wallop, I'm keeping you alive so you can get that
busted wing back in shape for the second smiting. But you see," added
Dave as he saw a wave of pain pass over the pilot, "the book doesn't
fill in the gap between the smiting of the first cheek and the offering
of the second. Elsewhere in the same book--and a long way in front of
that--you find references to the taking of an eye for an eye and a
tooth for a tooth. You and your gang of hotshots have been responsible
for the deaths of a lot of fine men, killed with no warning.

"So," finished Dave, hard-voiced, "maybe you'd like to learn what goes
on when a mild-mannered gent like myself gets mad?"

Dave reached across the pilot's body, grasped the wounded arm and
joggled it sharply. The pilot cried out in pain and beads of sweat
popped out on his face.

"Talk, damn you!" Dave twisted the arm again.

"Where are you running this game from?"

No answer--and another twist of the arm.

"How do you blow up the crystals?"

The pilot's eyes closed and he breathed heavily.

"Possum!" said Dave, slapping the pilot across the face. There was no
response, so he fumbled under the seat and found a water flask. He
threw a small handful into the pilot's face. "There isn't much of this
here," he said, "and I doubt that there's any water we can drink on
this half-world. Wounded men get thirsty, don't they, chum?"

The pilot opened his eyes and groaned, "Water--"

"Talk!"

"I don't know anything."

"Then you're no good to me alive!" snapped Dave.

The pilot sat up a bit. Dave twisted the arm again. "Don't!" pleaded
the pilot.

"Then talk!" snapped Dave again. "You got into this world the same as I
did, but by choice. How do we get out again?"

"There's--no way out."

"Baloney."

The pilot screamed in pain. "No--I swear it!"

"How does the Manhattan Crystal furnish power for New York?"

"I don't know."

"It's transmission of power, isn't it?" demanded Dave, jerking the
wounded arm again.

"I--"

"Good. That's what I thought. Transmission from one crystal to another.
They blow them up the same way?"

The pilot nodded, weakly.

"So _we_ don't manufacture the crystals in the nuclear laboratories.
You and your gang deliver them like Santa Claus, coming down the
chimney!"

The pilot nodded again.

"Now--where is this thing run from?"

The pilot shook his head. Dave snapped the arm sharply and the pilot
screamed. He screamed a name.

"There's no way back?"

"No," groaned the pilot.

Dave let him go. "No way of communicating with the real world from
here?"

"No."

"Do you know where we are?"

"Interstitial time."

"What?" roared Dave angrily.

The pilot winced. "I'm told," he gasped, "that time moves in quanta,
like energy. We're--between two quanta of time."

       *       *       *       *       *

Dave frowned thoughtfully. The expression, "out of phase" came to
mind, and he decided that the half-world was displaced, out of phase
in time, moving behind one peak of the "real world" and before the
next. He remembered seeing a series of synchronizing pulses depicted
on an oscilloscope; a series of rectangular waves, square-sided and
flat-topped, rising from the baseline sharply. Like the cross-section
of a row of piano keys, the separation between pulses very narrow
compared to the width of the flat top. This half-world, he supposed,
moved along in the separation.

"Where is Claverly--and Phelps?"

"I don't know. Another crew captured them and took them back."

"I think that's about enough," said Dave. "I think we can take it from
here."

"And what are you going to do with me?"

Dave grinned, "We'll make a sporting proposition out of this, superman.
You'll be the bait for a trap. If the trap springs on me, you'll win.
If the trap springs on you, well, that's just too damned bad!"

"You can't trap us!"

"No? You told me I couldn't get anything out of you, either. So just
watch!"

Dave lifted the 'copter once more and drove, at headlong pace, back
to Merion. He hovered thirty feet above the pseudo-ground, less than
half a mile from the main building, and then cut the engine and let
the helicopter drop. For good measure, he tilted it sidewise. The ship
landed with a jarring crash that crumpled the landing gear and folded
one of the rotor blades down. The hull crumpled in on one side, and a
litter of broken glass and some splinters of metal spread out across
the earth. Dave completed the picture by kicking out the fore window
and strewing the ground around the ship with the gear from the various
tool boxes and compartments.

He found a first-aid kit. He charged a hypo needle with a healthy slug
of sedative and placed it handy.

Then he sat back and waited.

An hour passed; two, three, and darkness began to fall. Dave switched
on the landing lights of the 'copter, and then with a vicious smile
he kicked one of them loose so that its beam cut the ground askew,
illuminating the litter on the ground.

Two hours after dark he was rewarded by the distant sound of another
helicopter. Dave went to work vigorously. He clipped the pilot across
the jaw, dazing him. He shoved the needle home and discharged the
sedative into the pilot's body. Then he cut the tape and shoved
the feebly-struggling body half out through the fore window, being
callously rough so that the pilot's face and shoulders were slightly
cut by the broken glass.

The pilot, roused a bit by the pain, waved at the oncoming helicopter,
trying to warn it off. Instead, the other pilot dropped rapidly towards
the wreck.

It landed a hundred feet away and two men dropped to the ground and
came running.

"What happened?" cried the foremost.

"Wreck," groaned Crandall, inside the ship.

He took careful aim with the pilot's rifle and fired, twice. Both men
dropped in their tracks.

Leaping over them, Dave went to their helicopter and climbed in. He
snapped the radio switch and said, "We're back, reporting."

"What happened, M-22?" the speaker answered tinnily, and Dave cheered
himself for guessing correctly that the other pilot or observer had
reported before investigating.

"Complete wreck," he said shortly.

"The men?"

"Dead."

"You're certain, M-22?"

"I am."

"What was the waving, then?"

"Piece of canvas. I thought it was one of them. The light, you know."

"Ah, yes. Over there it is dark. All right, proceed as directed and
return to this wreck once the crystal is placed!"

"Check. M-22 signing off."

Dave snapped off the radio and rummaged about in the helicopter. He
found the crystal, packed neatly in an aluminum box in the compartment
below the dash.

Now to find something to write upon. Nothing he had available would
suffice. And if he took the crystal into the laboratory to write upon
a wall, the video cameras would see him and the enemy would blow the
crystal up, and himself with it. There was--

Jane!

Dave grinned happily. He lifted the 'copter and drove it madly across
the plain, following the ghostly road he recalled so well, until he
came to the farmhouse of the Nolan family. Shamelessly, Dave lifted the
'copter around the farmhouse, peering into the windows until he located
Jane's bedroom. He took the crystal from its packing and forced it
through the window screen. Then he took the whole helicopter in through
the house until he was sitting beside her bed. He tapped her shoulder
with the crystal until she awoke.

"Uh--what?" she gasped, rubbing the sleep from her eyes.

She snapped on the light and sat up in bed.

She saw the crystal, apparently floating before her eyes, and she
jumped with fright. Then Dave took the 'copter close to the wall. He
scratched in the plaster:

_Jane. This is Dave!_

"Dave!" she breathed.

_Yes!_ It was hard on the plaster, but necessary.

"You can hear me?"

Dave pointed to the "Yes" with the crystal.

"You can see me?"

Again came the point. And Jane hurriedly wrapped herself in the sheet
and blushed. Then she threw away the sheet and said. "It seems that
this is no time for modesty, Dave."

He tapped the printed "Yes" once again as Jane reached for her dressing
gown and slipped into it.

"What do you want?" she asked.

_Carbon paper_, he wrote on the wall.

Jane disappeared, and Dave smiled at the scribbling on the wall. Its
disjointed message was bearing fruit. But what could one make out of:

_Jane. This is Dave!_

_Yes!_

_Carbon paper._

Nothing but the safety of America!

       *       *       *       *       *

Instead of carbon paper, Jane brought a "Magic Slate", one of those
wax-based tablets covered with a celluloid sheet that can be written on
with a stylus and then erased by lifting the celluloid. It was better
than carbon paper, and Dave cheered to himself at her brain-work.

"What is that?" she asked.

_This crystal is the one the enemy was bringing to Merion Laboratory
to replace the one they blew up in the safety-dump yesterday_, he wrote.

"Where are you?"

_I am in some sort of interspace between time quanta. Your guess is
better than mine._

"Who is the enemy?"

Dave wrote it out, and then added the rest of the details.

"What shall I do?"

_Stop them--somehow._

"How can I stop them?" wailed Jane.

_Call President Morgan._ You can do that, he wrote. _Let the President
put a stop to it!_

Jane nodded and went to the telephone. Dave followed. _I'm putting this
crystal in Merion_, he said. _I've been away too long--they will be
getting suspicious._

"Dave," cried Jane, helplessly looking for him. It was hard on Dave,
for he knew what she wanted and was unable to stand where her eyes were
trying to focus. He gave up and watched her eyes look aside and through
him, unable to help her see him as he could see her. "Dave," she cried
plaintively, "come back to me!"

_When I can_, he promised.

Jane waved the pad. "I have that in writing," she said. Her face showed
it to be a hard try at humor.

Dave tapped her gently on the forehead with the crystal, and then it
took off in a long swoop towards the window as he left. He did not
know, but he assumed that a certain amount of time must be permitted
the placers of those crystals since the operator could not open a
door, nor must he permit the crystal to be seen floating through a
busy corridor. How much of this grace period he had left he did not
know, but he wanted the crystal placed under the eye of the television
cameras of the enemy before they became suspicious.

The crystal was a deadly thing under any circumstances, but now it was
like a gallon tin of nitroglycerine; Jane, knowing the facts, would
keep people out of its sphere of death.

Meanwhile, as Dave drove the helicopter towards Merion, the avalanche
of action that he had initiated was rolling higher and higher.

A common, garden-variety citizen of no especial degree of public
acclaim is normally supposed to be able to shake the President by
the hand and/or complain about the weather or the administration,
or taxes, or anything. It has never been determined just what might
happen if Peter Doakes, of South Burlap, Idaho, became possessed of
vital information that must be handed to the President within the
hour. Without a doubt the country would be blown sky-high by the time
Mr. Doakes succeeded in proving to ninety-odd undersecretaries that
he had something truly important and was not a crank or a crackpot.
But Dr. Jane Nolan of Merion Atomic Laboratory had both a name and a
reputation, and when she placed her call to the White House, it took
her exactly twelve minutes to convince the powers that be that she had
something vital to discuss with President Morgan. Four minutes later,
the President had been awakened and was on the telephone. It took
another fifteen minutes for Jane to tell her story.

Then the President haled a pompous little man out of bed and made
him stand at the telephone while the President of the United States
gave the Foreign Ambassador a bit of the Official What-For, and began
explaining that it was not necessary for Congress to convene in order
for the United States to rise and defend herself against a sneak attack
from a Foreign Power, and that under the Circumstances, the President
was going to present the Foreign Power with a fine collection of
American Military Secrets, and that the first of these Gifts would be
presented within the hour unless the Foreign Power surrendered first.

The President had a few other suggestions regarding the Return,
unharmed, of a couple of American Scientists, and the well-being of a
certain American Newspaperman, and some other items of mutual interest,
and Furthermore, Mister Ambassador--

       *       *       *       *       *

Dave Crandall flew his helicopter towards Merion, wondering how things
were going. His job was done. He, too, was finished. There was no
return. Not that Dave felt any great urge to return; doubtless there
was something he could find to do in this half-world that would let him
go on working. He would have to contact them and have them ship him
groceries, cigarettes, and water. But there were many things that a man
could do here.

He thought about Jane, and his heart softened for a moment. This was
just as well, however. She would forget him, while he had no future
worth thinking about. Only hard work, partly because he liked activity,
partly because it kept him from brooding about the date of his certain
death.

A wonderful woman, Jane Nolan; one not to be hurt by fate's little
tricks. But so long as he was here, she--

The crystal he had in his pocket flashed brilliantly, penetrating the
cloth and lighting up the cabin of the helicopter. At once, Dave felt
the hard matter of the seat grow tenuous, and there was a bare instant
of sliding resistance, like the feeling of plunging a foot into the
shifting sand of a beach. Then the helicopter disappeared and Dave felt
himself falling.

"Damned unmitigated liar!" growled Dave. Then he crashed into a tree
and lost consciousness.

Dave meant the pilot who swore that there was no return to the real
world.

He opened his eyes and groaned. He tried to move and found that he
could not. He might as well be covered up to the eyebrows in concrete.

He looked around and saw a crowd of people watching him.

"Welcome home."

"But--?"

"I owe you an apology." Dave looked and saw President Morgan.

"Apology?"

"I got too tough with them. They flashed you back while you were flying
the helicopter. You're banged up a little."

"Nothing that can't be repaired," said Doctor Meteridge cheerfully. "A
beautiful case. Fractures of the tibia, fibula, radius and ulna on
one side, humerus and clavicle on the other. Bruises and a couple of
abrasions. Nothing serious."

"David," said President Morgan, "a grateful people is waiting for your
convalescence so that we can show you our appreciation."

"Yes," said Jane. "Get well. We all have plans for you!"

Dave tried to shake his head. "No, Jane. Doc'll tell you. Six months--"

"You can't escape me that easily," said Jane. "While you're all
neatly immobilized in that plaster cast, we are using their machine
to separate out the widespread specks of fission products that were
killing you. Just a matter of tuning critically so that it will send
certain isotopes into the half-world instead of the whole human being.
So by the time you get off your back, we'll have you healthy again and
then, Dave Crandall, just you think up another excuse!"

"Pick on a guy when he's down," grumbled Dave. He was laughing, then,
but the room blurred through the tears in his eyes.

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE DEATH CRYSTAL ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that:

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
