The planet did not look promising, but they had no choice. When a
ship's drive blows between star-systems, it has to be fixed. If metal
parts must be recast and machined, and burned-out wiring has to be
pieced together and insulated by hand, the job takes literally months.
And if, then, getting home is a matter of more months of journeying
with a drive that still limps, while coughing and cutting off for
seconds or until it is tinkered with--why, the traveler has to find
some way to renew his food supply.

It is for such occasions that the Interstellar Code requires all ships
to carry an emergency kit with seeds and agricultural directions.

The _Danaë_, therefore, limped to the nearest Sol-type star to hunt
for a planet on which to plant some crops. There was Borden and his
wife, Ellen. There was Sattell, whom they would be glad to part with
when they got home. There was Jerry, who was diffident enough to be
tolerable in spite of his lack of years. They were all at the forward
vision-port when they approached the only possible planet.

"It's fifty million miles out," Borden said. "A bit on the hot side.
But the sun is smaller than Sol, so it may not be too bad. At least
there are polar caps--small ones."

"No seas," Sattell said. "Pretty barren."

The others said nothing. It did not look at all encouraging.

The _Danaë_ went in on a spiral descending orbit. Borden looked for
other planets. He found a gas giant with a high-speed rotation. It was
flattened, oblate. He checked it with the two polar caps on the nearer
world and said worriedly:

"If the ecliptic's where I think it is, there'll be no seasons to speak
of. I was hoping this planet was near its equinox, because the ice-caps
are so nearly the same size."

Ellen said absorbedly, "I think I see a tinge of olive-green around
that ice-cap. The smaller one."

"Probably vegetation," agreed her husband. "But I don't see any more.
The place does look to be mostly desert."

They went in closer, circling as they headed for atmosphere.

Then Jerry said diffidently: "Could that be ice, there?"


CHAPTER


There was a white spot in the middle of the sandy-colored northern
hemisphere. It was the size of a pin head to the naked eye. Borden
swung a telescope on it. They were nearly above the point now, where
day turned into night.

The sunlight fell upon the white spot at a flat angle. If the whiteness
were perpetual snow on the tops of mountains, the mountains should
cast shadows. But Borden could not make out shadows near the white.
Automatically he snapped the telecamera before he gave up the effort to
understand the white spot.

"I doubt it's snow," he said. "I don't know what it is."

"Surely you can make a guess!" said Sattell, with that elaborate
courtesy which was getting on everyone's nerves.

"I can't," Borden said briefly.

The ship moved to the dark side of the planet, and presently plunged
into its shadow.

They went on for hours, watching for lights. There were none. When they
came out to sunlight again they had descended a long way during their
time in the planet's night.

They could see that the surface of the planet was pure tumbled sand
dunes with occasional showings of stone. They were three-quarters of
the way around when they saw the white spot again. This time they were
no more than four or five hundred miles high. They could tell its size.

It was all of three hundred miles long, north and south, and from fifty
to seventy-five miles wide. There were thin hair-lines running from it,
remarkably straight on the whole, to the north and south. They were
very, very fine lines. The patch was still white. As they came to be in
line between it and the sun, their shadow would have passed almost over
it.

The white spot changed abruptly. One instant it was white, the next, a
patch of it had turned silver. That silvery appearance spread out and
out in a swift rippling motion. The patch became silver all over its
entire surface.

Then it turned to flame.

There was a screaming of alarm gongs. The emergency feed-back screens
went on and everything went black outside. The lights in the ship
dimmed down to mere dull-red glows.

There was silence.

The ports showed blackness. The drive, of course, ceased to operate.
The ship had sealed itself in a shell of screening, through which
nothing at all could penetrate, but which drew upon the ship's
power-tanks for as much energy as it neutralized outside. And the drain
was so great that the interior lights were dim red spots and not lights
at all.

For five heart-beats the blackness persisted while the four in the ship
stayed frozen.

The feed-back screen cut off. Again they saw the planet below. The
white patch once more was white, instead of flame. But as they looked,
the silvery look spread out all over it in glittering ripples, and they
seemed to look into the heart of a sun's ravening furnaces before the
feed-back screen came into existence for their defense. The ports were
blacked out again.

The ship hurtled on toward emptiness. It was blind. It was helpless.

Borden moved an emergency light to shine on the output meter. The
needle was fast against the pin. The feed-back screen was not only
drawing maximum safe power. It was working on an effective short
circuit of the ship's entire power supply. Busbars carrying that
current would be heating up. They would melt at any instant.

Borden's fingers moved swiftly. He set up a shunt for on-switch
operation of the feed-back field.

He threw the last cross-over tumbler and waited, with sweat beading
his forehead. Something had flung a beam of pure heat-energy at the
_Danaë_. It should have volatized the small space-craft immediately,
but it had been left on for four seconds.

When it ended, the feed-back screen cut off, too. Then the _Danaë_ had
been detected a second time and the planetary weapon used again. Now,
with the feed-back field on-switch instead of relay, _if_ the heat ray
turned off again the feed-back field wouldn't, and the _Danaë_ should
be indetectable to anything but a permeability probe. The space-ship
would seem to have been destroyed, if the heat-beam went off before the
ship's power failed.


CHAPTER


It did. A relay clicked somewhere, cut a current flow of some tens
of thousands of amperes. The lights inside the ship flashed to full
brightness. Borden's eyes flicked to the power-meters. The operational
power-tank meter read zero. The emergency reserve power-tank meter
showed a reading that made fresh sweat come out on Borden's face.

But the ports stayed black. Absolutely any form of energy striking
the feed-back field outside would be neutralized. No light would be
reflected. Any detector-field would be exactly canceled, as if nothing
whatever existed where the _Danaë_ hurtled onward some few hundred
miles above the planet's surface.

The _Danaë_, at the moment, was in the position of having made a hole
about itself to crawl into. But it couldn't use its drive. It couldn't
see out. It was hiding in blackness of its own creation, like a
cuttlefish in its own ink.

"Dee," Ellen Borden asked her husband in a shaky voice, "what happened?"

"Something threw a heat-ray at us," said Borden. He mopped his
forehead. "We should have exploded to incandescent gas. But our
feed-back field stopped it. The heat-ray cut off when we should have
been destroyed--and so did our field, so there we were again! And so we
got a second beaming. But now we aren't. At least we appear not to be.
So we can live until we crash."

Sattell said in a suddenly high-pitched voice, "How long will that be?"

"I don't know the gravity," Borden told him. "But it does take time to
fall four hundred miles. We have some velocity, too. It's under orbital
speed but it'll help. I'm going to figure something out."

He swung in the control-chair and hit keys on the computer. The size of
the white spot. It had all turned silvery, then all of it had flamed.
Why? The amount of power in the heat-ray--a rough guess. Nobody could
have figures on what a ship's tanks would yield on short-circuit, but
the field had had to neutralize some hundreds of megawatts of pure heat.

The amount of overlap--the size of the heat-ray itself--was another
guess and a wild one. And why had all of the white spot spat flame?
Every bit of it? Three hundred miles by an average of sixty.... Even at
low power--

The computer clicked.

"Sun-power," Borden said grimly, after a moment. "That figures out just
about right. Not more than a kilowatt to the square yard, but eighteen
thousand square miles has plenty of square yards! We've been on the
receiving end of a sun-mirror heat-ray, and if it had been accurately
figured we'd have fried." Then he said, "But a sun-mirror doesn't work
at night!"

He punched keys again. Presently he looked at his wrist-chronometer. He
waited.

"We're falling!" Sattell cried shrilly. "Do something!"

"Forty seconds more," said Borden. "I'm gambling your life, Sattell,
but I'm gambling Ellen's and mine too, not to mention Jerry's. Calm
down."

His eyes turned to the meter that showed the feed-back-field drain.
It was drawing precisely the amount of power needed to cancel out
the sunlight falling on it, as well as the starlight, and the light
reflected from the day side of the world below them. That drain was
less than it had been. They were crossing the planet's terminator--the
line dividing the light side from the dark side--as they plunged toward
the sandy deserts.


CHAPTER


The drain dropped abruptly. They had moved into the planet's shadow.
Into night.

Instantly, Borden flicked off the feed-back field. His eyes darted to
the nearest object radar dial. They were still sixty miles high, but
falling at a tremendous speed. Borden's hands moved quickly over the
controls. Lift. Full atmosphere drive on a new course.

"We won't crash," he said evenly, "unless we're shot at with something
that works in the dark. But that sun-mirror business is odd. There's
only a certain size of sun-mirror that's economical. When they get too
big there are better weapons for the money. That one was big! So maybe
it's the best weapon this planet has. In which case we'll be nearest
safety at one of the ice-caps. Sun-mirrors will be handicapped in polar
regions!"

"They--tried to kill us!" Sattell panted suddenly. "They don't like
strangers! They fired on us without warning! We can't land on this
planet! We've got to go on!"

"If you want to know," Borden told him, "we haven't any fuel to go on
with. And we happen to be short of food. And did you remember--"

The ship's drive cut off. It had been burnt out and repaired by hand,
with inevitable drawbacks. Since the repair, it had run steadily for as
long as three days at a time. But also it had stopped four times in one
hour, and it had needed tinkering with three times in one day.

It ought to be overhauled. For now it had cut off, and they were forty
miles high. If it came on again they would live; if it didn't, they
wouldn't.

After six spine-chilling seconds the drive came on again. Ten minutes
later it went off for two seconds. Half an hour later it made that
ominous hiccoughing which presaged immediate and final failure. But it
didn't fail.

It was not pleasant to be so close to a planet they could not afford
to leave, with a drive that threatened to give up the ghost at any
instant, and with something on the planet which had used a sun-mirror
beam to try to volatilize the _Danaë_ without parley. Apparently the
four in the small ship had the choice of dying on this planet or not
too far away in space.

They needed food, and they needed fuel. Above all, if the planet was
inhabited, they needed friendship, and they weren't likely to get it.

They were only ten miles high when signs of dawn appeared ahead. Of
course, if they happened to be moving with the planet's rotation,
they'd be moving into sunset from the night. They didn't know. Not yet.
But there were gray clouds ahead, to the right and below.

A little later they were five miles high and the clouds were still
below. There was twilight ahead. At two miles altitude the drive
hesitated for a moment, and caught again after all four in the
control room had stopped breathing.

Red sunlight appeared before the ship in a spreading, sprawling thin
line. At five thousand feet the ship had slowed to a bare crawl--a few
hundred miles an hour.

And the dawn came up like thunder.


CHAPTER


To the left and behind was desert, stretching away in the dawnlight,
in every conceivable shade of tawny yellow and red, with blue shadows
behind the hummocks in the sand, and with an utterly cloudless sky
overhead. To the right and ahead was an area of straggling, stunted
vegetation beneath rose-tinted cloud masses with the dazzling white of
snow against the horizon. There were other clouds above the snow.

The drive burbled erratically. The ship dropped like a stone. Then the
drive flickered on, and off, and on and off again so that ship's whole
fabric shook.

Borden threw the drive off and on again and the induction surge of
current cleared whatever was wrong for a moment. They felt the ship
fighting wind pressure that was trying to turn it end over end. Then it
steadied, and nothing happened--and still nothing happened.

The crash came violently. Ellen was flung against Borden and held fast
to him. Jerry collapsed to the floor. Sattell went reeling and banged
against the end wall of the control room.

There was stillness.

Borden stared at the screens, then got up painfully and went to a port.
The ship had landed in soil which seemed to be essentially sand. It
had splashed the soil aside in coming to ground. But it was not desert
sand. There was moisture here. Beyond the impact area a straggling
ground cover grew. It looked like grass, but it was not.

Nearby was one greenish object which looked like a cactus without its
spines. It had a silky covering like down. A little farther on Borden
could see three or four things quite like stunted, barkless trees.

The ground was gently rolling. In the distance the growing light showed
a whiteish haze, and clouds in the sky. All shadows were long and
stretched-out. This was not far from the ice-cap. Indeed, it appeared
that snow was nearby. But from the port on the opposite side of the
ship the beginning of the planetary desert could be seen.

"We're down," said Borden with relief. "Now we've got to find out if
anybody saw us land, and if so, whether they'll insist on killing us or
whether we can make friends."

Sattell said, "You've got to arm me, Borden! Dammit, you can't leave me
unarmed on a hostile planet!"

"I'd like to have four weapons ready instead of three, though if we
have to fight a whole planet even four won't be much good. But I can't
risk letting you have anything dangerous in your hands," Borden said.

Sattell ground his teeth.

Jerry said apologetically, "Shall I test the air, sir?"

Borden nodded. He regarded Sattell with a weary, worried frown,
while Jerry readied the test. The situation was bad, but Sattell was
troublesome too.

Two months ago, while the drive was still in process of repair, Borden
had heard a strangled cry from Ellen. He found her struggling to scream
as she fought Sattell.

Borden's appearance had ended the struggle, of course. Sattell had been
confined to his bunk for two weeks before he was able to move about
again. But Borden hadn't been able to kill an unconscious man then,
and he couldn't kill Sattell in cold blood now. But Sattell could kill
anybody. And he would, if he got the chance.

"It's the devil, Sattell," Borden said somberly. "If I didn't think you
were a rat I could make a bargain to forget what's happened until we
get the ship safely home. But I don't think you'd keep a bargain."

Sattell snarled at him and turned away. Jerry looked up from the tiny
air-testing cabinet. He'd drawn in a sample of outer air and a silent
discharge had turned its oxygen to ozone, which a reagent absorbed. A
hot silver wire stayed bright, and so proved the absence of chlorine or
sulphur, CO_{2} tested negligible, and hot magnesium took up nitrogen.
The remnant of the sample did not react with reagent after reagent, so
it had to be noble gases.

"It seems all right, sir," said Jerry. "If I may, I'll go in the
air-lock and take a direct sniff. May I, sir?"

"Unless Sattell wants to volunteer," Borden observed. "I would think
better of you, Sattell, if you volunteered for first landing."

Sattell laughed shrilly. "Oh, yes! I'll walk out on a hostile planet,
and let you take off and leave me! Even if you can't leave the planet,
you can come down ten thousand miles away. You'd like to do that, too!"

"Meaning," Borden said, "that _you_ would.... All right, Jerry. Go
ahead."

"Yes, sir." Jerry went out. They heard the inner air-lock door open.

Borden said heavily, "It would be sensible to lock you up while we're
aground, Sattell. I can't leave the ship with you inside and free.
You've already said what you'd do if you could--take off and maroon us."

Jerry's voice came from the air-lock through a speaker.

"Mr. Borden, sir, the air's wonderful! You don't realize what canned
air is like until you breathe fresh again. Wonderful, sir! I'm going
out."

Borden nodded to Ellen. She moved over to watch through a port as Jerry
made the first landing on this unnamed planet of an unnamed sun. She
could see the straggling ground-cover vegetation, and the thing that
looked like a cactus except that it wasn't, and the trees. She saw
Jerry step to the ground and look about, breathing deeply.

Behind her, Borden said bitterly:

"We were blasted at without challenge. But it was with a sun-mirror
that was not too efficient. The local race may not have any other power
than sunlight. If so, they won't be up here by the ice-cap! If we
weren't spotted by radar as we landed, we may make good repairs, raise
food, and get back to space without our presence being known--because
they should think they had wiped us out."


CHAPTER


Ellen gasped suddenly from the port: "Dee! Natives! They've seen Jerry!
They're coming close!"

Borden moved quickly to look over her shoulder. Sattell took a second
port. They stared out at the strange world about the _Danaë_.

Jerry had kicked a hole in the sod and picked up a bit of it to examine
closely. And, not sixty yards from him, three creatures were regarding
him with intense curiosity.

They were furry bipeds. They stood as erect as penguins, not bending
forward in the least. They had enormously long arms which almost
reached to the ground beside them. From what should have been their
chins, single tentacles drooped--like the trunk of an elephant, except
that it was beneath the mouth opening instead of above it. They stared
at Jerry with manifest mounting excitement, making gestures to each
other with their trunks and arms.

Borden moved to warn Jerry through the outside speaker. But Jerry
looked up directly at the creatures. He spoke to them quietly.

At the sound of his voice their manner changed. Borden thought
irrelevantly of the way a dog flattens his ears when his master speaks
to him. But these creatures flattened all their fur. Jerry spoke
again. He waved his hand. He glanced at the _Danaë_'s port and nodded
reassuringly.

The three creatures moved hesitantly toward him. Two of them stopped
some forty yards distant. One came on. Suddenly it wriggled with an
odd effect of embarrassment. The flattening of its fur became more
noticeable.

A fourth creature of the same kind came loping over a rise in the
ground. It used its long arms to balance itself as an ape might do,
but an ape does not run upright. This creature did. It saw Jerry and
stopped short, staring.

The creature which had advanced toward Jerry appeared to be more and
more embarrassed. Jerry moved to meet it. When he was ten feet away the
creature lay down on the ground and rolled over on its back. It waved
its trunk wildly, as if supplicating approval.

Jerry bent over and scratched the furry body as if he knew exactly what
it wanted. The two others who had been its companions loped forward,
plunged to the ground, rolled over on their backs and waved their
trunks as wildly as the first. Jerry scratched them.

The fourth creature, which had stared wide-eyed, suddenly waved its
arms and burst into a headlong rush. Its haste seemed frantic. It
scuttled frenziedly, made a leap, turned over as it soared, landed on
its back two yards from Jerry and slid to his feet.

When Jerry scratched it, it wriggled ecstatically. Its trunk waved as
though it were experiencing infinite bliss.

Borden said slowly, "Something on this planet tried to burn us down
with a heat-ray not half an hour ago. We land--and this happens! What
sort of place is this, anyhow?"


CHAPTER


It was a queer place, they soon learned. The climate was cool, but
pleasant. There were no radio waves beneath a readily detectable
ionosphere. Yet apparatus over an area three hundred miles by an
average sixty--the white spot--had responded in seconds; in parts of
seconds.

Which meant electric control. Which implied radio. But there were
no radio waves, which should have been proof that there was no
civilization on this planet capable of doing what certainly had been
done. Which was nonsense.

On the fourth day after landing there had been no alarm, but there was
a good-sized group of furry bipeds always waiting hopefully about the
_Danaë_ for one of the humans to come out and scratch them. All but
Sattell. When he came out of the _Danaë_, the bipeds moved away. They
would not go near him.

"I am not comfortable," Borden said to Jerry. "Something drained power
from us. Enough to run the ship for two years was drained out in eight
seconds! But we land, and the only inhabitants are your fine furry
friends whose one purpose in life seems to be to get scratched. They
act more like pets than wild animals, and sometimes more like people
than pets. But if they're pets, did their masters try to kill us? What
does go on on this planet, anyhow?"

Jerry said modestly, "I'm beginning to understand the furry creatures a
little, sir. They're remarkably intelligent, for animals. They want me
to go somewhere with them. I'd like to. Is it all right?"

Borden said, "If you think it's safe. Ellen has the planting well under
way, and the fuel synthesizer is working after a fashion, although I'd
a lot rather have it working near the equator. I'm getting along fairly
well with rebuilding our drive, but there's a long job ahead. If other
planetary inhabitants don't find us and kill us, we're all right. If
they do find us, what you do won't matter. Go along if you like, within
reason. But I wish you could take Sattell with you."

That couldn't be done. The two-legged creatures hung about the ship
wearing an air of happy anticipation when all the humans were inside,
and flopping eagerly on their backs to be scratched, when they came
out. But when Sattell tried to approach one of the creatures, they fled
as if in terror. Not one had ever been knowingly within a hundred
yards of him--and he hated them.

When Jerry first reported that they had some sort of language and could
exchange simple facts--he didn't know whether they could exchange ideas
or not--Sattell savagely insisted that those who knew of the existence
of the ship should be killed, and any others who discovered it also
killed. The idea would be to keep the news of the _Danaë's_ landing
from reaching whatever other race might inhabit the white spot of the
heat-ray.

But there were always some of the furry ones around. Sometimes more,
sometimes less. Maybe only the same ones came to the ship. Maybe they
went away and others took their places. Neither Borden nor Jerry was
sure, but both demurred at killing. Besides, the news had already gone
as far as such creatures were likely to take it before Sattell proposed
to wipe them out.


CHAPTER


Sattell raged when he was overruled. He was overruled over most things
because he couldn't be trusted. Borden wouldn't let him work on the
drive. He might try to make sure that if he didn't get back to Earth,
nobody else should, either.

Ellen took the dibble stick and the seed capsules and planted the crop
that might supply them with food. Each seed was enclosed in a gelatine
capsule with a bit of fertilizer and a spore culture of terrestrial
soil micro-organisms. Planted, by the time moisture reached the seed
there was a bed of Earth's own microscopic soil-flora around the seed
to help it grow.

But Sattell couldn't be trusted to plant seed, either, if the others
would benefit.

He couldn't even be allowed to work the fuel synthesizer. In that
apparatus plain water entered a force-field in which H^1 and H^2 simply
could not exist as molecules or ions. So the atoms frantically absorbed
heat energy from their surroundings to make pseudo valence-bonds and
develop giant hydrogen molecules which could only be written down as
being of molecular weight.

The fuel synthesizer was set up a good half-mile from the space-ship
and was developing a small ice-cap of its own. But it would be a long
time before there was drive fuel to refill the ship's tanks. Sattell
might sabotage that.

So he had to be treated as the pampered guest of those who believed
implicitly in his will to murder them. All arms were safely locked
away. Even the air-lock fastening had to be dismantled, so he couldn't
lock everybody else out of the ship.

And Borden and Ellen and Jerry went armed, and had nerve-rackingly to
be on guard at all times. But it would have been ridiculous to confine
Sattell so he had the status of a nonworking guest because he was a
potential murderer.

There was not much for Jerry to do either, except hold conferences with
his admirers. On the fifth twenty-hour day after the _Danaë's_ landing,
Jerry set off with an excited mob of furry, trunk-waving friends. He
carried a walkie-talkie, depending on the absence of radio waves from
the planet's atmosphere to make its use safe.

Two hours after he had headed north toward the ice, Borden and Ellen
came back from an inspection tour of the crops and fuel synthesizer,
and found that Sattell had disappeared, too. He'd taken all the food he
could conveniently carry from their depressingly short supply.

Borden swore bitterly. Sattell underfoot was a nuisance and a menace.
But Sattell at large might be more, and worse. There was no glamor in
being cast-away on this alien world, such as is shown in visi-screen
plays. The _Danaë_ was a small utility ship, suitable for small
expeditions for scientific purposes, or for the staking out of private
planetary estates--a common practice, these days--and the servicing of
such establishments.

Her eighty-foot length now rested slightly askew in the pit her landing
had made. About her was arctic flora, and the thick fur of the bipeds
suggested that they were arctic animals themselves. But here close to
the ice-cap was the only place on this planet where a man might hope to
survive. It was madness for Sattell to leave the ship.

"It doesn't make sense!" Borden said. "What has he to gain? He was
afraid we'd go off and maroon him. We can't do that with crops going,
the synthesizer working, and the drive pulled down. So what can he gain
by running off?"

Ellen said uneasily, "Jerry's armed. And he won't be suspecting
anything."

Borden scowled. "Get out the talkie and warn him. If Sattell surprises
Jerry and gets his blaster, he might bushwhack us!"


CHAPTER


Ellen brought out the talkie. She turned it on and said crisply:
"Jerry, Sattell's disappeared. Come in please."

Jerry did not answer. Borden paced up and down, frowning and thinking
of ever more disastrous possibilities.

"Bring the talkie into the ship," he said presently. "We'll hook it to
an outside aerial. Jerry won't be traveling with his turned on. But
he's bound to call us eventually."

He took the talkie from her, carried it inside the ship, and plugged
it in there. In minutes a speaker in the control room was emitting the
nondescript hissing which was the random electronic noises made by
metal objects nearby. The ship itself, for one.

"I'm going to look in Sattell's cabin," said Borden grimly.

That was drastic action. On a space journey privacy is at once so
difficult and so essential that nobody on a space expedition ever
enters another's private cabin. To look in Sattell's cabin was a great
violation of normal rules of conduct. But it had to be done now.

Borden went in the cabin and through Sattell's possessions. He came out
looking sick.

"I found something," he told Ellen. "When we were coming in I looked
at that white spot through a telescope. I didn't see anything worth
noting, but I snapped the telecamera out of pure habit. Then I forgot
it. But Sattell didn't. He made this."

He showed her a photographic print. Sattell had made it from the infra
red image on the full color photograph. It was an enlargement, showing
more detail than Borden had seen with the naked eye. There were shadows
on this print, the shadows of structures. There were buildings rising
from the white. There were towers. There was a city on the white spot
from which a heat-ray had been projected at the _Danaë_ out in space!

Quite as important, the threadlike lines they had noticed were
here plainly highways leading away from it. One led north, judging
directions from the shadows. It reached toward the polar ice-cap near
which the small space-ship was grounded.

"If Sattell really expects us to kill him," said Borden, "he could
have headed for that highway. He might expect to make a deal with our
enemies by selling us out. Even if they killed him out of hand, the
fact that he was an alien would make them hunt for us. So he could
figure that he might make friends, but even if he didn't he would be
sure to ruin us. A win for him either way."

Ellen paled a little. "And the drive's pulled down and Jerry's gone."

"So there's nothing to do but wait and see," said Borden.

He tried to work on the space-drive. All its parts were spread out
on the drive room floor. When they'd repaired it before, it had been
so thoroughly fused that a part looked good even if repaired to the
accuracy of a bent wax candle straightened out by hand.

Now the repairs looked very bad. It seemed incredible that anything so
clumsily made should have worked. But Borden couldn't keep his mind on
it.

"Just on the off chance, Ellen," he said abruptly, "you will not leave
the ship by yourself. We'd better replace the lock-door fastening, too.
If we do have visitors from the city on the white spot, that won't stop
them. But it might keep them from taking us off-guard."


CHAPTER


He opened the thief-proof locker where an essential part of the
lock-catch had been stored, to protect it from Sattell. It had a
combination fastening, intended merely to prevent pilfering when the
ship was in a space-port.

Borden reached in. Then he went completely and terribly white.

"He's got the star charts and the log! He got in here somehow!"

This was the ultimate in disaster. Because space is trackless. At fifty
light years from Earth the Milky Way is still plain, of course, but
the constellations have ceased to be. At a hundred light years one is
lost. At a thousand light years--and the _Danaë_ had passed that point
months ago--a ship in space is in much the position of a canary whose
universe has consisted of a cage in a single room, and has escaped out
a window into the wide, wide world.

A space-ship has to keep an infinitely precise log of bearings run and
distances traveled in all three dimensions. It must make photographic
star charts. And the accuracy of all its records must be perfect if
it is to find the place it left nearly enough for the stars to become
familiar again so it can locate the Solar System--barely four light
hours in span.

"I think I made a serious mistake," Borden said quietly, "when I didn't
kill Sattell!"

To find a spot four light years across in a galaxy a hundred thousand
light years wide would be difficult enough with good maps. With no
maps, they could spend the rest of their lives wandering hopelessly
among the stars, of which not one in ten thousand had yet been named
by men, landing on planets not one in a hundred thousand of which had
known human footsteps. And they might search for months or years upon a
planet where there was a human colony, and never discover its location.

Borden clenched and unclenched his hands. Sattell had been foisted upon
him as a crew-member while the _Danaë_ was being fitted out for space.
Borden was filled with a deadly cold fury in which regret for his own
past forbearance was his principal emotion.

"Since he's taken the log and charts," he told Ellen icily, "he means
either to bargain with us or to destroy us. And if I know Sattell, it's
six of one and half a dozen of the other!"

It would be. Sattell now had the power of life and death over Borden
and Ellen and Jerry. He would not trade that power for anything
less. In fact, he would not dare yield it at all, because he was so
sure he would be killed himself if he did. The only bargain he could
conceivably make would be one in which they surrendered themselves
to him absolutely, armed him and disarmed themselves, and threw
themselves on Sattell's mercy. And Sattell had little mercy.

"You might try calling Jerry again," said Borden. "Once we've warned
him, we can try to track Sattell by his footprints. His shoes have
heels, and the ground is soft."

Ellen picked up the walkie-talkie microphone again.

"Jerry, Sattell's disappeared. Come in, please.... Jerry, Sattell's
disappeared. Come in, please...."

Her voice went on and on. Borden went grimly over the ship, looking
for signs of what else Sattell might have busied himself with in the
past twenty-four hours. He had believed that Sattell, being in the
same boat with the rest of them--in the same space-ship, anyhow--would
automatically have thought of the group. No sane man did think of
anything but cooperation with his companions in disaster.

But there exists a kind of human being, he knew, which may be a mutant,
which makes a career of the gratification of all emotions, impulses,
momentary desires. Which knows no purpose save personal satisfaction,
and simply does not think like nonmutant human beings.

There were all too many specimens of this type among humans. Some
ordinarily masked themselves, but if Sattell ever had, he now had been
unmasked.


CHAPTER


Ellen called and called. Her voice grew weary and her shoulders dropped
hopelessly as hours passed without reply.

Borden found where Sattell had crossed the wires so that if the ship
took off and went out into space, the control board would show all air
vents as safely sealed. But there would remain a small, steady drain of
leakage of the ship's air stores.

He also found a small alteration of the water-recovery system. They
would have run out of water on the way home. He found a cunning circuit
arranged so that if the ship rose on interplanetary drive and set out
on even a hopeless search for home, the instant it went into overdrive
its power tanks would fuse and short, and it would be left driveless
and powerless, to crash or drift helplessly until its occupants died
or went mad of despair.

Borden came back to the control room with his face set in savage lines.

"We didn't watch him," he said bitterly, "so he took advantage. Right
now he's gloating, sure we have to accept any terms he demands, for the
use of the log and maps to get home. And he's gloating because he'll
have his revenge if we refuse, and if we do make a bargain he'll tell
us how many ways we'd have died if we had not made it. We've got to
check every device and every piece of equipment in the ship before we
can lift off this planet--even after we've got fuel!"

He looked out a port. The shadows were long and slanting. It was
twilight. Night was near.

Ellen said drearily into the talkie:

"Jerry, Sattell has vanished. Please come in!... Jerry, Sattell has
vanished. Please come in!"

Far away, a tiny figure appeared in the half light. It came hastening
toward the _Danaë_. It was one of the furry bipeds, probably one of
those that had accompanied Jerry. It came through the dusk at an
agitated lope, using its long, furry arms to balance itself. It made
an agitated leap at sight of the space-ship and rushed onward more
frantically than before.

"Look!" cried Borden. "That looks like a messenger!"

He went out the air-lock door, his hand on the weapon in his holster.

The biped bounced at sight of him. Its fur flattened, but it came on
at a tearing rush. It leaped and slid and came to rest before him, its
trunk waving wildly. He bent to scratch it, according to the custom
that had become established in the past four days. But it did not wait.
It stood up, making excited chirping noises and gesturing wildly. It
made grimaces, in the falling night.

Then Borden noticed blood on its fur....


CHAPTER


An hour later an almost unbearable bright light appeared in the
distance, moving toward the _Danaë_. Jerry had carried a handflash,
of course, but nothing equal to this. Judging by the wavering of the
light, it was mounted on a vehicle of some sort.

Ellen's voice said wearily for the thousandth time:

"Jerry, Sattell's vanished. Come in, please."

"You can stop that, Ellen," Borden told her. "The call's answered. It
looks as if the real natives of this planet are coming to call."

He shrugged and turned to the furry creature which now was inside the
ship. He'd bandaged its wound--a clean deep puncture in the flesh of
its arm. He led it to the air-lock.

"Get going," he said curtly. "Your masters are coming. They won't like
it that you've made friends with us. Scat!"

But the creature only blinked at the approaching light while its fur
flattened. It went bouncing out and toward the swaying, lurching
approaching light, racing joyfully to meet it.

Borden stared. Then he saw that other figures were about the
approaching light beam--other furry, dancing, leaping creatures. They
ran and gesticulated happily about the advancing vehicle.

It didn't make sense. But nothing did make sense on this planet!

Borden waited in the air-lock with Ellen behind him and a blaster
in his hand. In the darkness the vehicle came lurching onward with
surprising quiet. Its light swayed, and it had moved as if to turn,
when Borden threw on the outside lights.

A semicircle of the sparse green vegetation sprang into brilliance.
Borden and his wife were relatively in shadow. They could see the
vehicle clearly.

It was nearly thirty feet long and rolled on two curious devices
which were not caterpillar treads, but not exactly wheels, either. A
loping, wildly excited horde of bipeds--including the one Borden had
bandaged--surrounded it, making way for it but escorting it in wild
enthusiasm.

The thing was caked with dirt. It was not merely dusty. It was packed
with dried clay, as if it had been buried and only recently exhumed.
A round blister at the front which might be plastic had been partly
cleared of dirt, but there were still areas in which clay clung and
made it opaque.

It curved about and swung parallel to the ship. It stopped within
twenty feet of the air-lock. Then an oval window--which looked as if
somebody had scratched caked clay off it with a stick--turned endwise,
quite impossibly, and became a door. The door slid aside. The interior
of the vehicle was dark.

Borden held his blaster ready. He wouldn't shoot first, but there _had_
been a heat-ray flung at the _Danaë_!...


CHAPTER


And Jerry got out of the incredible vehicle and stood blinking
embarrassedly in the light from the outer-lock glare lamps.

Borden snapped, "Who's with you?"

"Why, nobody," said Jerry. "I tried to tell you by talkie, but it
wouldn't work. I'm afraid Sattell did something to it before I left.
It's dead."

"What's that thing?" demanded Borden. "That--that wagon?"

"It's a ground car, sir," Jerry said uncomfortably. "There are thirty
or forty of them in a sort of valley about ten miles away. This
one was half-buried in mud, and the others are the same or worse.
The--er--creatures--took me there and dug this out for me. They
apparently wanted us to have it."

"And it runs!" said Borden. There was again no sense to anything. A
ground car buried in mud should not run when excavated.

"Yes, sir," said Jerry. "They dug it out for me, and I got in it and
found the skeletons and the weapons."

Ellen said, "Skeletons?"

Borden said, "Weapons!"

"Yes, sir. I tried to ask you for advice over the talkie, and like I
said, it wouldn't work, so I fiddled around a bit and the car showed
signs of life, and I found out how to run it. So I brought it back. The
weapons work too, sir. You point them at something and push a knob and
they--well, they're pretty deadly."

Borden said flatly, "Sattell's ducked out. With the log and star maps
and food. One of the creatures just came in wounded. I thought Sattell
had planned to ambush you and get your blaster. If he did trail you--"

Jerry blinked, "I didn't see a sign of him. Just a moment, sir."

He turned to his furry companions. Flushing a little, he pulled
something out of his pocket and hung it onto his chin. It was a
sock--one of his socks--partly filled with clay.

Borden was still unable to find any two things happening on this planet
which added together to make sense. The sight of Jerry fastening a
clay-filled sock to his chin seemed slightly more insane than anything
else that had happened.

"I've found out how they talk, sir," Jerry said shyly. "It's a sort
of sign language with their hands and trunk, and they make noises for
inflections and tenses, sir. And emotional overtones. I'm not too good
yet, but--"

The scene before the lock door was unique. The clay-caked, thirty-foot
vehicle looked more like a land yacht than a ground car. It was made of
a golden metal. Two dozen or more of the furry bipeds were regarding
Jerry as he made gestures and every so often stopped to adjust the
position of his artificial trunk. When he made sounds at them, their
fur flattened. When he adjusted his sock trunk, although it far
from resembled their own, they seemed entranced. When he finished,
the creature with the bandaged arm made elaborate gesticulations
accompanied by chirping sounds. Even Borden, now that he had the key,
gathered a dim idea of what the biped was trying to say.

"He says, sir," reported Jerry, sweating, "that a stick came through
the air and stuck in his arm. He pulled it out and ran away. He kept on
running. Then he saw this ship, ran to it, and you bandaged his arm for
him."

Borden snapped, "An arrow! Sattell's made a bow and arrow. He sabotaged
your talkie so you couldn't be warned about him, and he probably hoped
to trail you and kill you with an arrow, so he could take your blaster
and come back and kill us! Maybe he was just practicing when he hit
this poor creature. Anyhow, he seems to be trying everything all at
once, to destroy us." He added sharply, "But weapons! Jerry, from what
you say there'll be more weapons in those other wagons! If he finds
them, and he probably will, since he was trailing you--"

Jerry said, "I worried about that, sir. So I got the creatures to dig
down to the doors of all the wagons in sight. I thought we'd better
have the weapons safe before--er--Sattell tried to help us find out
about the vehicles. I've got all the weapons right here. But there
weren't weapons in all the wagons. In most of them there were just
skeletons."

Borden was again reminded of the great number of things which did not
fit together into any coherent picture. He said impatiently:

"Then Sattell won't get the weapons. But what's this you keep on saying
about skeletons? Did you bring any of them?"

Jerry said, "I left those in here undisturbed. If you'll take the
weapons as I hand them out, you can look them over. They're just as I
first saw them."

[Illustration: The bipeds looked on as Borden and Ellen carried the
stubby, golden-metal weapons.]

He reached inside the vehicle, passed out objects midway between rifles
and blasters in size. They were surprisingly light. They could have
been aluminum, except that they were the color of gold or copper. There
were three armsful of them.

Ellen took them inside and came back.

"Now I'll look at those skeletons," said Borden.

He took Jerry's hand flash and climbed inside. Jerry said
apologetically to Ellen:

"I got so excited about what I found that I forgot all about eating. Do
you think I could fix something?"

"I'll do it for you, Jerry," said Ellen.


CHAPTER


She took him inside. Sattell had carried away about most of the food
in the current-use freezer, and the storage lockers were nearly empty,
but she prepared an ample meal for him. She couldn't even guess at the
significance of what he'd found, but she knew there was meaning to it
if only it could be found.

Jerry was eating contentedly and telling Ellen about his journey with
the furry bipeds when Borden came in. He went to a tool locker, got out
a small torch, and went out again.

Considerably later the outer lock door clanked. Then Borden came back
into the cabin where Jerry was still talking with his mouth full.

"I'm beginning to get an idea of what's happened on this planet,"
Borden said grimly. "Jerry, was there any sign of a highway where you
found this bunch of wagons?"

Jerry considered: "The front part of this one," he offered finally,
"was buried deeper than the back. It went into a sort of hill. And
under the wheels there was flat stone. It could have been a highway,
buried under the mud that partly covered up what you call the wagons,
sir."

Borden nodded. "I've brazed the steering tiller of that wagon so it
can't be steered," he observed. "And I've replaced the lock fastener so
Sattell can't break into the ship. We can sleep tonight. Tomorrow we'll
go over to those wagons and disable them all. And then, in this wagon
you brought, we'll hunt Sattell down. I have an idea he'd better not
have a wagon of his own. It might not be good for us."

Jerry asked rather breathlessly, "What did you think of the skeletons,
sir? I left them exactly as they were." He hesitated. "I thought they
were a lot like human skeletons. Is that right?"

"Quite right," agreed Borden. "There is an extra rib on each side, and
three fewer vertebrae, and their joints were a little different, but
they were people, as I interpret the word. Were there skeletons in all
the wagons you entered?"

"Yes, sir."

Ellen said impatiently, "What did you find out, Dee?"

"I guessed," Borden told her. "But I'd bet on my guesses. For one
thing, the group in this vehicle was a family. One was taller and
stockier than the others. I could be wrong, but I think it was the
male--the father. There is a slightly smaller, slightly slenderer
skeleton there, too. It has jewelry on it. And there are two smaller
skeletons." He took a deep breath. "The small skeletons were laid out
neatly, comfortably. The next to largest skeleton was with them. The
stocky skeleton.... He'd killed himself, Jerry?"

"The weapons make holes like that, sir," said Jerry. "I tried one on
the ground. Even in the ground cars where there were no weapons, one
skeleton was always like that, with a hole in the skull."

"Yes," said Borden. "They must have loaned the weapons to each other
for that purpose."

Ellen protested: "But Dee! What _was_ it?"

"I've a very complete guess," Borden said evenly. "It includes Jerry's
furry friends. They act like domestic animals, like pets with an
inbred, passionate desire to be approved of by--people. Dogs are like
that. You agree, Jerry?"

"Oh, yes, sir!"

"If a party of human beings, in flight from something dreadful, had
come to some place in the arctic, on Earth, where they couldn't go any
farther, where the wives and families they had with them had no chance
of survival because of the thing from which they fled, what would they
do?"

Jerry said awkwardly, "If I may say so, sir, it does look just like
that!"

Borden went on without apparent emotion, "The men of those families
would know there was no escape. The odds are that they'd put their
family dogs out of the ground cars, because they might live. But if the
situation was absolutely hopeless they might not want their families to
suffer--what they'd first tried to escape. So the children would die
painlessly. So would the women and then the men would kill themselves.
Possibly, anyhow. Or they might go back and fight. Here, it seems, they
killed themselves."


CHAPTER


Ellen protested, "But what could be so hopeless? If the pets survived--"

"My guess doesn't run to what they fled from, Ellen. But I think it's
the white spot that flung that heat-ray at us. And I think that after
all the people in the ground cars were dead, winter came, and covered
up the vehicles with snow. Spring came, and floods washed mud along
the highway and partly covered up the cars with mud. That went on for
years and years and years. The pets that had been put out of the cars
did survive. They were probably arctic animals to begin with, judging
by their fur. And they have a language of sorts. They yearned for their
masters. That was instinct. But they told their children--pups, what
have you--about the masters they had lost. And one day a space-ship
came bumbling down out of the sky and landed with a crash--and Jerry
got out of it. And he was like their masters. So they have adopted us
as their masters. And so--that's my guess. All of it."

"Dee!" cried Ellen softly. "How terrible!"

"You think, sir," asked Jerry, "that they were running away from
something on the white spot?"

"_We_ did," said Borden. "We had to. Maybe they had to, too."

"But what do you think it is?"

"That," Borden told him, "is something I hope we don't have to find
out. Right now I suggest that we get some sleep."

And presently there was silence inside the _Danaë_, while the night
grew deeper and darker outside.

There was no moon on this planet, but there were many stars in the sky.
In the starlight the furry bipeds waited patiently about the hull for
dawn when the humans would come out again. Some of them slept. Some sat
erect, blinking meditatively. One or two walked about from time to time.

Occasionally one or more seemed to think there was a sound somewhere.
They would look intently in the suspected direction until assured there
was nothing amiss. They were much like dogs back on Earth, waiting
hopefully for their masters to get up and be ready to pay attention to
them again.

Hours later, the sky to the east paled. There was a chill mist to the
northward, toward the polar cap. The ground in that direction glistened
with the wet of condensation when the sky grew brighter. But here, so
near the desert which save for the white spot covered the planet from
pole to pole, there was no such excess of moisture. The ground here was
damp because of seepage.

In a little while an eerie half-light spread over this curious world.
The furry creatures sat up and scratched themselves luxuriously, and
stretched in human fashion. Some of them scuffled amiably, tumbling
over and over each other as if to warm themselves by exercise.

A little longer, and the sun rose. And shortly after that there
were clankings when Borden unfastened the air-lock and came out.
Immediately he was the center of a throng of the bipeds, lying flat
on their backs with their stubby trunks waving urgently in the air,
waiting to be scratched.

He scratched them gravely, one by one. Then Jerry came out and the
process had to be repeated. The sun was low, and Jerry's shadow was
thirty feet long on the sparsely covered ground.

Relieved of the bipeds' attentions, Borden moved off to one side.
He had one of the stubby, golden-colored light metal weapons in his
hand. He examined it carefully, again. There was a sort of stock, and
a barrel three inches in diameter with an extremely tiny opening at
its end. There was a round knob on one side. Borden unscrewed the knob
a little, pointed the weapon carefully away from the _Danaë_ and the
furry creatures, and shifted the knob.

There was no noise. But what seemed to be a rod of flame shot out of
the tiny muzzle. Where it touched the ground there was a burst of steam
and flame and smoke from the scorched vegetation.

Borden turned it off quickly and aimed at a greater distance. He could
not discover any limit to its range, in which respect it was a better
weapon than the blaster of human manufacture he wore at his hip. It
would be decidedly undesirable for Sattell to get hold of a weapon like
this!

He went into the ship and when he came out again Ellen was with him.
They put the golden-metal weapons in the ground car. They brought out
food. Ellen looked uneasily in the back, where she had heard there were
skeletons, but they were gone. A mound of loosened soil nearby told
where. Borden had buried them, together.

"All set, Jerry?" asked Borden. "I've locked the ship so Sattell can't
get in. As I told you, we're going to disable those other wagons and
track down Sattell. If we can capture him reasonably intact, we'll put
a cardiograph on him and ask him loaded questions about the ship's log
and star maps. His pulse should change enough to enable us to track it
down. But first we wreck those wagons!"

Jerry made gestures to his furry friends. They gesticulated back
extravagantly. He climbed in the vehicle. Borden freed its tiller and
Jerry drove.


CHAPTER


For people effectively shipwrecked on an inimical planet and with no
real hope of ever returning to their home, it was hardly appropriate
that they got absorbed in the operation of a local vehicle. But this
vehicle, large and roomy, was not a ground car so much as it was a land
cruiser. It ran with astonishing smoothness, considering that it lacked
pneumatic tires. And though from the outside it seemed to lurch and
sway as it covered the rough ground, inside the lurchings were not felt
at all.

The bipeds ran and skipped and loped beside it. Jerry picked up a
little speed. They strained themselves to keep up.

Jerry had said ten miles. Actually, the distance was nearer twelve.
There was snow in patches here and there. The air grew misty. Through
the mist the edge of the ice-cap could be seen, a wall of opaque white
some sixty or seventy feet high at its rounded melting edge, and rising
to greater thickness beyond. And they came to a small running stream
some four or five feet wide, the first running water they had seen on
this planet.

And there were the clustered vehicles, about forty of them lined up as
if on a highway which had come to an end in an ice barrier now melted
away.

The vehicles were partly or wholly covered with water-borne clay which
had been laid upon them by just such meltings of the ice-cap. They ran
on into a small hillock which had formed since they had come to a stop
at this place. Some were merely hummocks of clay-covered metal, barely
showing above the ground. Some were what could be called only hub-deep
in the clay. But it was being buried in the clay which had preserved
them.

"You see, sir," Jerry explained, "I got the creatures to help me dig
down to the doors, so I got into all that show. For weapons."

But Borden did not compliment him, though a compliment was due.
Instead, Borden said in a toneless voice:

"I also see that Sattell has been here. He must have trailed you. He
saw where you had driven one vehicle away. So he dug out the tracks of
another one--there!--and tried it. And it worked. Sattell is gone."

It was true. Jerry, stricken, drove over to the new deep gouges in the
earth which showed plainly where a way had been dug to take out another
gold-metal vehicle on its wheel-like treads, and that it had been
backed from where it had been almost buried.

Bones on the ground showed where Sattell had savagely flung the pitiful
relics of the original owners of the car. The prints of his boots were
plain in the loosened dirt.

"We've got to chase him?" Ellen asked apprehensively.

"He has the star maps and the log," Borden said tonelessly. "Or else he
knows where he hid them."

"But where would he go?" persisted Ellen.

"He knows we're after him," said Borden. "He knows we're armed, and I
doubt that he is, except for his bow and arrow. Where would he go for
help, except to the place where we have enemies?"

The track of the other vehicle was clear. There had been no feet
heavier than those of Jerry's biped friends on any of this ground for
many, many years. There was a deep furrow where the other ground car,
the one Sattell had taken, had rolled away.

Jerry put on speed.

Borden said, "I'll watch how you drive this thing, Jerry, and relieve
you presently. Sattell can't drive night and day. We can. And there's a
long way to go. We'll catch him!"

But Sattell had a head start. Five miles from the beginning of the
chase, the track they followed swung to the right and down a rolling
hillside. They followed. And a seamless highway built of stone,
patently artificial, came out of the hillside and stretched away across
country.

It was forty feet wide. And here, in some dust that had drifted across
it at some spots, they saw the trail of Sattell's car. At other places,
even for most of the way, the winds had kept the roadway clear.

Jerry increased his speed. Borden thought to look at the road behind
them.

Ellen, understanding, said, "No, the poor creatures couldn't keep up.
They were running after us as if their hearts were breaking, but they
couldn't make it."

Ten miles farther on, the highway was overwhelmed by wind-drifted sand.
The trail of Sattell's fleeing car went up over the sand dune. They
went after it. Half a mile farther, the highway was clear again. It
swung south, headed out across the desert.

They did not catch sight of Sattell or his car.

For a stretch of twenty-five miles the arrow-straight road was raised
above the average level of the sands, and it was wind-swept. Then it
went into a low range of rust-colored hills. Here they saw signs again
of Sattell's passing. The streaked, rounded furrow of his vehicle's
peculiar tread in wind-blown sand across the road.

On the far side of the hills they thought they had overtaken him when
they saw the glint of golden metal a little off the highway.

They stopped. Borden and Jerry approached the spot, weapons ready. It
was a ground car, past question, one like their own, but it had not
been newly wrecked. That disaster had happened generations ago. The car
had literally been pulled in half. It had been gripped by something
unthinkably powerful and wrenched in two. The metal, strained and
stretched before it broke, showed what had happened.

There were bones nearby. Not skeletons. Bones. Individual bones. Not
gnawed. Not broken. Simply separated by feet and yards of space.


CHAPTER


Some ten miles farther on they came to the first of the forts, a great,
towering structure of rocks piled together across the road. It was a
parapet sixty feet high, enclosing a square of space. In sheltered
places among the rocks there was a vast amount of soot as if flames
had burned here fiercely. But there was no charcoal. Here, too, were
innumerable bones. There would have been thousands of skeletons in this
walled area if they had been put together. But they were separate.
Every bone, no matter how small, had been completely separated from
every other bone.

They could be identified, however. These were the bones of people like
those who once had owned this golden-metal vehicle. They had died here
by thousands. Weapons, bent and ruined, proved that they had died
fighting. After death, each body had been exhaustively disjoined and
the separate bones scattered utterly without system. And the victors
had apparently done nothing else.

Borden knitted his brows as the ground car went on, having perilously
skirted around the walls. Jerry seemed to feel that he had wasted
time looking. He tried a higher rate of speed. The car yielded it
without effort. There seemed to be no limit to the speed at which
these remarkable vehicles could travel without vibration or swaying or
jolting.

That first fort was perhaps fifty miles behind when Borden's expression
changed from harried bewilderment to shock. He stared ahead as the
vehicle sped along the geometrically linear highway, wind-swept and
free of dust as it was.

He said slowly, "That's right, Jerry. Make as much speed as you can.
When you're tired, I'll drive. We've got to catch Sattell before he
reaches that white spot. It's possible that more than our lives depend
on it...."

They did not catch Sattell, though they drove night and day. Their
speed varied from fifteen miles an hour when they crawled over
occasionally drifted sand dunes which swallowed the highway, to two
hundred miles an hour or better. Borden estimated grimly that they
averaged more than a thousand miles per twenty-hour day.

Sattell couldn't have kept that up, so they must have passed him,
probably as he slept in some hiding place off a rocky spot in the
highway where there would be no trail to guide them to him. But of
course the wind might have erased his trail anywhere.

Ellen tried to rest or doze in the back while Jerry or Borden drove on,
one resting while the other drove. But after the first day the actual
overtaking of Sattell plainly was not Borden's purpose. It was clear
that he meant to get ahead of Sattell, to reach the white spot first.

On the second day of their journeying they found a second fort. This
also was a structure across the highway, defended from attack in the
direction for which they were headed. It had been more carefully
built than the other one. This had been more constructed of squared
stones, lifted into position by construction engines whose sand-eroded
carcasses were still in place.

There also were larger instruments of warfare here, worn away by
centuries of exposure to blowing sand. The fort itself had many times
been filled with sand and emptied again by the wind. Only under
archways were there any signs of soot, as if flames had burned terribly
here. Some land cruisers such as the one in which they rode had been
destroyed like the one they had seen at the first fort--pulled apart.

Like the other fort this one had not been demolished after its capture.
Not even the cranes and weapons had been seized. But the defenders had
been completely dismembered. No two bones were ever attached to each
other. Rarely had one been broken. None had been gnawed. Some were
sand-worn, but each was complete and entirely separate.

And tens of thousands--not merely thousands--had died here. Their bones
proved it.


CHAPTER


Ellen watched Borden's face as they drove through this fortress.

"Do you know what happened, Dee?" she asked.

"I think so," he said coldly.

"The white spot? It looks as if they had been fighting something that
came from there."

"They were," said Borden. "And I don't want Sattell to encounter the
thing they were fighting. He knows too much."

She studied his expression. She knew that they were making the top
possible speed toward that same white spot from which a heat-ray had
been thrown at them. He hadn't explained. Jerry was too diffident to
ask. Ellen was not, but something occurred to her suddenly.

"You said, the 'thing'!" she said, startled. "Not creatures or people
or anything like that! You said the thing!"

He grimaced, but did not answer her. Instead, he said. "I'll take the
tiller, Jerry. We've still got the talkie that Sattell sabotaged,
haven't we?"

Jerry nodded and shifted the tiller to him. They'd discovered that the
steering gear could be shifted from side to side of the front of the
vehicle, so that it could be driven from either the right or left
side. On a planet without cities but with highways running thousands of
miles to the polar ice-caps, long-distance driving would be the norm.
Conveniences for that purpose would be logical. Drivers could relieve
each other without difficulty.

"Look it over," commanded Borden. "The logical way to sabotage a talkie
would be to throw its capacitances out of balance. No visible sign of
damage, but I couldn't find a band it wasn't tuned to. See if that was
the trick."

Jerry busied himself as Borden drove on. Here the highway wound through
great hills, the color of iron rust and carved by wind and sand into
incredibly grotesque shapes. A long trail of swirling dust arose behind
the racing cruiser.

Borden said abruptly, "I've been thinking. Check me, will you two?
First, I think the people who made this vehicle were much like us. The
skeletons proved that. They had families and pets and they made cars
like this to travel long distances on highways they'd built from pole
to pole. This car uses normal electric power, and its power source is
good! So they should have had radio frequency apparatus as well as
power. But no radio frequency is being used on this planet. The race
that built this car, then, has either changed its culture entirely, or
been wiped out."

Jerry said blankly, "You mean, the people in the white spot--"

"Are not, and were not the race that built the roads and made this
machine," said Borden. "In fact, we've passed two forts where people
like us died by tens of thousands, fighting against something from
the white spot. They had long-range weapons, but at the end they were
fighting with fire. You saw the soot! It was as if they burned oil by
thousands of gallons to hold back something their long-range weapons
couldn't stop. Fire is a short-range weapon, though a sun-mirror
need not be. But nothing stopped this enemy. Vehicles like this were
pulled right in half. That doesn't suggest people. It suggests a
thing--something so gigantic and horribly strong that needle beams of
flame couldn't stop it, and against which flame seemed a logical weapon
to use. It must have been gigantic, because it could pull a land car
apart endwise."

Ellen waited. Jerry knitted his brows.

"I'm afraid," Jerry said, "I can't think of anything that would be big
and ... I just can't think what they could have been fighting."

"Think of what it wanted," Borden said drily. "It killed the
population, wiped them out. Back on Earth, a long, long time ago,
Ghenghis Khan led the Mongols to destroy Kharesmia. His soldiers looted
the cities. They carried away all the wealth. They murdered the people.
Plains were white with the skeletons of the folk they murdered. Do you
notice a difference here?"

Jerry said irrelevantly, "You were right about the talkie, sir.
Somebody's thrown it all out of tuning. I'll have to match it with the
other to make use of it." Then he said painstakingly, "The difference
between what you mentioned and the conquerors of the forts is that
the loot was left in the forts. Engines and weapons and so on weren't
bothered." Then he said in sudden surprise, "But the people weren't
left as skeletons! They were all scattered!"


CHAPTER


Jerry raised startled eyes from the talkie on which he was working. And
suddenly he froze. Borden braked, stopped the car. They had come to a
place where shattered ground cars were on the highway, on the sides of
the road, everywhere. Here the road ran between monstrous steep-sided
hills.

Borden started the car again and drove carefully around half of a
vehicle which lay on the highway. Weapons had been mounted in it for
shooting through the blister that was like the blister through which he
looked in their car.

"There was a battle here, too," he said. "They fought with cars here.
Maybe a delaying action to gain time to build the fort we just left.
There are bones in these cars, too."

"But what were they fighting, Dee?" Ellen demanded again, uneasily.

Borden drove carefully past the scene of ancient battle--and defeat. He
did not answer.

After a time Ellen said, more uneasily still, "Do you mean that
whatever they fought against was--going to eat them? It wanted
their--bodies?"

"So far as we can tell," said Borden, "it took nothing else. Didn't
even want their bones."

He drove on and on. He didn't elaborate. There was no need. A creature
which consumed its victims without crushing them or biting them or
destroying the structure of their bones! It must simply envelop them.
Like an amoeba. A creature which discarded the inedible parts of
its prey in separate fragments, without order of position, without
selection. That also must be like an amoeba which simply extrudes
inedibles through its skin. Ellen swallowed suddenly and her eyes
looked haunted.

"Something like a living jelly, Dee," she said slowly. "It would flow
along a highway. If you shot it with a needle-ray, it wouldn't stop
because it would use the burned parts of its own body as food. You'd
think of burning oil as a way to fight it. You'd try to make forts it
couldn't climb over. Where would such a thing come from, Dee?"


CHAPTER


Borden said drily, "From space. Maybe as a spore of its own deadly
race. Or it might be intelligent enough for space-travel. It should be!
It knew enough to make a sun-mirror of itself to destroy us! It also
knew enough to make itself into straining cables to pull ground cars
like this apart to get at the people inside."

Ellen shuddered. "But that must be wrong, Dee! A creature like that
would cover a whole planet! It would consume every living thing and
become itself the planet's surface or its skin."

"But this planet is mostly desert," Borden reminded her. "It may
be that there was just one oasis on which a civilization started.
Sun-power was all it had. It would make use of that. It would find the
ice-caps at its poles, and build highways to them to haul water to
extend itself. Its people would delight in such strangeness as running
streams, like the one we saw. If something hellish came out of space,
landed, and attacked that oasis, the thing would follow the survivors
of its first attacks along the highways by which they retreated. When
they built forts, they would congregate in numbers it could not resist
attacking. And--"

Jerry glanced up. His face was white, and he looked sick.

"I recall, sir," he murmured, "that you said Sattell knew too much.
I believe you guess the 'thing' you are talking about absorbed the
knowledge of the people it consumed. Is that right? And if it should
absorb more from Sattell, and through him know about us--"

"My guess," said Borden, "is that it knew we were in a space-ship.
In one there are always relays working, machines running, things
happening--as is always the case where there are humans. Where there
are living beings. Such happenings can be detected. I also believe this
'thing' can tell when it can reach the living, and when it can't. When
it can reach them, it undoubtedly moves to devour them. When it can't,
it tries to destroy them--as it tried with us. That may be because of
its own intelligence, or it may be because of the knowledge gained
through what it has consumed.

"That's why I don't intend to let Sattell be consumed by it! He knows
how the _Danaë's_ drive works and how it should be repaired. He knows
how to read the log and the maps he stole. Just as a precaution, I'm
not going to let that 'thing' in the white spot gain the knowledge
that there is a planet called Earth with life all over it, on every
continent, and in the deeps of the seas. _If_ the 'thing' in the
white spot were to find out that there is such a place, and _if_ it
is intelligent enough to wipe out a civilized race on this planet, it
might be tempted to take to space again. Or at least to send, say, part
of itself!"


CHAPTER


Abruptly the wind-carved, rust-colored hills came to an end. The
highway curved slightly and reached out toward the horizon. But the
horizon was not, now, a mere unending expanse of dunes and desert.

A bare few miles distant, the desert was white. There were no dunes.
A vast, vast flat mass of nothing-in-particular, not even raising the
level of the ground, reached away and away to this world's edge. It
looked remarkably like a space on which a light snowfall had descended,
shining in the sunlight until melting should come. The towers of the
city in the midst of it also were shimmering white.

But it all was not a completely quiescent whiteness. There were
ripplings in it. A pinnacle rose abruptly, and Borden backed the
vehicle fiercely as the pinnacle formed a cuplike end of gigantic size,
and the interior of that cup turned silvery.

The rust-colored hills blotted out just as a beam of purest flame
licked from it to the spot where the ground car had been the moment
before. Rocks split and crackled in the heat.

The beam faded. The light vanished.

"So," said Borden matter-of-factly, continuing what he had been saying,
as if there had been no interruption, "as long as Sattell is at large,
why, we have to kill that 'thing.' I think I know how to do it. With a
little overload, I believe that walkie-talkie will do the trick. You
see, the 'thing' is terrifically vulnerable, now. It has conquered this
planet. It was irresistible. Nothing could stand against it. So it will
be easy to kill."

But in that opinion, Borden was mistaken. Living creatures moving
toward the white spot should have had no reason to be suspicious.
Traveling at high speed along the highway, they should have continued
at high speed to the very border of the white spot, at least. More
probably they should have entered the white-covered area filled
with a mild curiosity as to what made it so white. And of course
the white spot--the horror, the protaean protoplasm of which it was
composed--would have engulfed them. But the car stopped. And the white
spot _was_ intelligent.


CHAPTER


Twenty minutes after the first crackling impact of a heat-beam in the
valley, Borden was out of the ground car and moving carefully to peer
around a rocky column at the white spot.

Its appearance had changed. There was a rise in the ground level at
the edge of the white spot now. The stuff which was the creature
itself--which Ellen had aptly called a living jelly--had flowed
from other places to form a hillock there. Borden regarded it with
suspicion. Obviously, it could send out pseudopods. Amoebae can do
that, and he had just seen this thing form a sun-ray projector of
itself.

But Borden was not aware of the possibilities of a really protaean
substance to take any form it desires.

He saw the pseudopod start out. He was astounded. It did not thrust
out. The hillock, the raised-up ground level, suddenly sped out along
the highway with an incredible swiftness. He regarded it with a shock
that was almost paralyzing.

But not quite. He fled to the car, leaped into it, and sent it racing
down the highway at the topmost speed he could coax from it. His face
was gray and sweating. His hands shook.

Ellen gasped, "What, Dee? What's happened?"

"The beast," said Borden in an icy voice. "It's after us."

Ellen stared back. And she saw the tip-end of the white-spot's
pseudopod as it came racing into the end of the valley through which
the highway ran. It was a fifty-foot, shapeless blob of glistening,
translucent horror. And it did not thrust out from the parent body. It
laid down a carpet of its own substance over which its fifty-foot mass
slid swiftly.

An exact, if unimpressive, analogy would be a cake of wet soap, or
a mass of grease, sliding over a space it lubricated with its own
substance as it flowed, leaving a contact with its starting point as a
thin film behind. Or it could be likened to a roll of carpet, speeding
forward as it unrolled.

A hillock of glistening jelly, the height of a five-story building,
plunged into the valley at forty miles an hour or better. By sheer
momentum it flowed up the mountainside, curved, and came sliding back
to the highway and on again after the ground car.

But the car was in retreat at over a hundred miles an hour. It reached
a hundred and fifty miles an hour. Two hundred.

Borden stopped it five miles down the highway and wiped his forehead.

"Now," he said grimly, "I see why ordinary weapons didn't work against
it. The thing is protean, not amoeboid. It isn't only senseless jelly.
It has brains!"

He considered, frowning darkly. Then he turned the ground car off
the road. He drove it around a dune, and another. It became suddenly
possible to see across the desert toward the white mass at the horizon.


CHAPTER


There was a ribbon, a road, a highway of whiteness leading toward
the city. The five-story-high mass of stuff that had come sweeping
toward the car had traveled along the highway, carpeting the rocky
surface with its own substance. Now there were new masses of loathesome
whiteness surging along the living road. There were billows, surgings,
undulations. It was building up for a fresh and irresistible surge.

Across the desert a new pseudopod, a new extension of the white
organism, moved with purposeful swiftness. It was somehow like a narrow
line of whitecaps moving impossibly over aridness.

"It knows we stopped," Borden said. "It won't attack. It'll act as if
baffled--until there's a fresh mass of it behind us. Then it will drive
together and catch us in between. Jerry, are you set to try the talkie
stuff?"

"Pretty well," sighed Jerry.

The car crawled back to the highway. The waiting mass of jellylike
monster was larger. It grew larger every instant, as fresh waves of its
protaean substance arrived through the throbbing of the pseudopod back
to the oasis.

"Turn on the walkie-talkie," commanded Borden.

Jerry, white and shaken, threw the switch. An invisible beam of
micro-waves sped down the valley behind the halted car. It reached the
blob of jelly which now was as large as when it had started from the
parent mass. The jelly quivered violently. Then it was still.

"Turn it off," ordered Borden. "Why didn't that work?"

Jerry turned off the micro-wave beam. The jelly quivered once more.
Borden, watching with keen eyes, said:

"On again."

The pile of jelly quivered a third time, but less violently. The first
impact of the micro-wave beam had bothered it, but it had been able to
adjust almost instantly. It perceived the micro-waves. That much was
certain. But it could adjust to them.

Borden said furiously, "The damned thing can learn! It can think.
It is smart as the devil! But if I am right, what it wants more
than anything else is not to do anything. It has to be awake when we
are near. It can't help itself, but it wants to sleep. We and our
micro-waves are like mosquitos buzzing around a man's head. I thought
they--"

He stopped short, but after a moment laughed unpleasantly.

"I get it. When it learns a pattern it can disregard it. Living things
always act without pattern. So it can't disregard them. But it could
disregard an unmodulated beam. Let's see what a modulated one will do.
Jerry, the microphone."

When the talkie went on and its beam of micro-waves hit the monstrous,
featureless thing, it did not even quiver. Then Borden said into the
microphone:

"'Mary had a little lamb. Its fleece was white as snow. And everywhere
that Mary went--'."

The monstrous mass of ghastly jelly plunged toward him.

Ellen shot the ground car away. Borden's throat contracted. When his
voice stopped, the frenzied movement of the horror ceased. It stood
trembling in a gigantic, glistening heap. It seemed to wait. Borden
considered grimly.

"It could make a sun-mirror now," he decided, "but not a very big one.
We'd run away. It doesn't want to chase us away until that other arm of
stuff gets behind us. If we run, it will follow. It could follow the
original inhabitants of this planet for thousands of miles. Doubtless
it would follow us as far.

"And there's always Sattell. We've got to kill it. How? I thought a
walkie-talkie beam would irritate it. It can adjust to it. Then I
thought, a modulated wave--voice-modulated--would exhaust it. But no.
We need something new, right now!"


CHAPTER


There was silence. Then Ellen said uneasily:

"Maybe this idea isn't sensible, but could it be that the walkie-talkie
beam just wasn't strong enough? It was too much like--like tickling it,
arousing its appetite. Maybe if the beam were powerful enough it would
be like paralysis."

Borden did not even answer. He hauled at the objects that had been
found to be the covers to the power-leads of the vehicle. He and Jerry
worked feverishly, without words. Then Borden stood up.

"This time we are really risking everything," he said grimly. "The full
power of the car's power source goes into the beam. If a walkie-talkie
beam was appetizing, this ought to curl its hair. Switch, Jerry!
Microphone on!"


CHAPTER


Some hundreds of kilowatts of power in modulated-wave form would go
out now into the body of a creature whose normal sensory reception
centers would be accustomed to handling minute fractions of one watt.
The talkie could handle the power, of course. With cold-emission
oscillators, there was no danger of burning out a wave-generating unit.

"'--the lamb was sure to go,'" said Borden.

The two-mile distant mass of horrid jelly began to quiver
uncontrollably. But without any purpose at all. Borden said with a
terrible satisfaction:

"'It followed her to school one day, which was against the rule. It
made the children laugh and play to see the lamb at school.'"

The shapeless mass of living stuff made tortured upheavals. It flung up
spires of glistening stuff. It writhed. It contorted. It flung itself
crazily against the hillsides.

"''Twas brillig,'" said Borden, "'and the slithy toves, did gyre and
gymbal in the wabe. All mimsy were the borogroves, and the mome raths
outgrabe.'"

The jelly fled. It flowed back upon the carpet of its own substance
on which it had been able to move with such ghastly speed. It flowed
down from a mound to a flattened thickening of the pseudopod which had
thrown itself at the car.

That pseudopod flowed away upon itself. It fled. It raced frantically
to be gone from a beam of micro-waves whose pattern was not fixed,
which varied unpredictably from instant to instant as sound waves
changed it from something the white-spot being could disregard to
something which did not promise food, and which could not be ignored.

The white-spot creature was tormented. Its instincts said that
what was not patterned was life. Its intelligence said that this
was not life--not life in quantity proportional to the stimulus, it
yielded, anyhow. The modulated micro-waves impressed its consciousness
as a steam whistle at his ear impresses a man. The sensation was
intolerable. It was maddening.

In less than an hour, Borden had returned to the end of the valley
and was beaming micro-waves at the white spot across the few miles of
desert in between. He was beginning to be weary now, and his memory for
recitative verse was running thin.

"Take over and keep talking, Ellen," he said into the microphone. He
handed it to her.

Ellen said steadily. "I don't know how this is doing what it does,
but--'My name is John Wellington Wells, I'm a dealer in magic and
spells, in hexes and curses and ever-filled purses and witches and
crickets and elves.' I've got this wrong somehow, Dee, but tell me what
it is and I'll try to keep on."

Borden said, "I'd rather not tell you. It would overhear. I think,
though, that it's moving away. The white stuff is drawing back!"

And it was true. The whiteness which had been beyond the desert
was withdrawing. The pseudopod--a misnomer, because in this case
the word should have been something else--the extension which had
come to destroy the humans had long since withdrawn. The formless
ground-covering was gathering itself into a mass, and that mass was
moving away.

There was a dark space visible. It was ground--humus, oasis soil--which
had been covered by the unspeakable organism which centuries since had
conquered this planet.

"I'd chase it," Borden said somberly, "only I'm not sure it couldn't
get itself together and make a sun-mirror. We'll wait till nightfall."

"But what are we doing to it?" demanded Ellen.


CHAPTER


Jerry was at the microphone now, going through the _Sonnets From the
Portuguese, while the living jelly at the edge of the world quivered
and fled in shaking revulsion.

"The thing's alive," said Borden. "And it can't help receiving all
sorts of impressions. Like any other organism, it learns to disregard
any impression it receives that it can anticipate or classify. We
don't hear a clock ticking. If we live near a noisy street, we don't
hear traffic. But we wake if a door squeaks. That--white spot can
disregard the electric waves of lightning. It can disregard sunshine.
But it can't disregard things it can't fit into a pattern. It has
to pay attention. And I'm giving it the kind of unpatterned signals
that normally mean living things. Continuous, nonrepeat patterns of
stimulation. And--they're too strong for the devilish thing."

Ellen said doubtfully, "Too strong?"

"You touch people to call their attention. If you touch them too hard,
it isn't a touch but a blow, and you can knock them down. That's what
I'm giving this thing. It has the quality of a signal the spot can't
ignore, and the force of a blow. It should have the psychological
effect of thousands of bells of intolerable volume--only worse. But
we've got to keep on with the stimulus. And we mustn't repeat, or it
might be able to get used to the pattern."

"I'll talk to it in French," said Ellen. "But it doesn't seem to me
that a walkie-talkie could be too strong for--"

"It's hooked to the car's power system," Borden told her. "Jerry set it
up and connected it just before he began to recite poetry. There are
several kilowatts of radiation going to the thing now, and all of it is
attention-holding radiation."

When night fell and the use of a sun-mirror was patently impossible,
Borden moved on the highway toward what had been the white spot. The
walkie-talkie sent on its waves ahead.

Ellen recited, "_La fourmi et la cigale_" from second-year French.
Borden was more or less ready to take on from there with what he
remembered of Shakespeare.

They reached the end of the desert and all about them there was
the moist ground of the oasis which once had been the center of a
civilization. Presently they moved into the deserted, emptied buildings
of a city.

Borden said, "This civilization will be worth studying!"

They went on and on and on, talking endlessly, and driving the entity
which had conquered a planet by painstakingly recalled sections of
Mother Goose, and by haphazard recollections of ancient history, the
mythology of ancient Greece and Rome, and the care and feeding of
domestic cats.

When dawn came, Borden was speaking rather hoarsely into the
microphone, and the creature was plainly in sight before them. It
writhed and struggled spasmodically. It flung masses of itself insanely
about. It knitted itself into intricate spires and pinnacles, with
far-flung bridges, which shuddered and dissolved.


CHAPTER


The sun rose, and the thing should have been able to destroy them.
But it could not. It still writhed. It still shuddered. It twisted in
monstrous, weary, lunatic gyrations. Ellen regarded it with eyes of
loathing.

"It acts like it's gone mad," she said in revulsion.

"It may have," said Borden. "It's certainly exhausted. But we're
getting pretty tired, too." He said into the microphone, "You probably
don't understand this that I'm saying, any more then you understand any
of the rest. But you had this coming to you."

He handed the microphone to Jerry, who had suddenly remembered an
oration, _Spartacus to the Gladiators_. Jerry began to recite it.

But the writhings of the mountainous mass of jelly became more terribly
weary, more quiveringly effortful. There came a time when it quivered
only very, very faintly. Those quiverings ceased.

"I think it's dead, sir," said Jerry.

Borden snapped off the walkie-talkie. He snapped it on again. The
horrible, half-cubic-mile of jelly did not flinch.

Borden said drily, "Abracadabra, hocus pocus, e pluribus unum."

There was no sign of life in the thing. He watched grimly for any sign
of returning activity. By noon, though, it could be seen that the
ghastly mass of once-living substance was changing. It was liquefying.
There were rills of an unpleasant fluid forming on its glossy flanks,
to run down and flow and flow away into the desert to be dried up.

"I don't think we'll want to be around for the next few weeks," Borden
said heavily. "We'll go back and fix up the ship."

Then Ellen mentioned Sattell's name for the first time in days.

"How about Sattell?"

"We outran him on the way here," Borden said moodily. "But I think
he'll come on. He'll want to find out if we're dead. Not knowing what
the thing--the white spot--was, I think he'll figure that either we'll
be sent back with help, or killed. If he gets to where he can see the
white spot, and we haven't started back with friends, he'll be sure
we're dead. Then he'll go back and start to fix up the ship himself. I
think we'll meet him on the way."

And they did. The second day out from what was now an oasis instead of
a white spot, they saw Sattell's car headed in their direction as a
moving gleam of golden reflected sunlight.

Jerry ran their car off the road to a hiding place behind a dune. He
and Borden took posts behind the sand dune's tip. Sattell came racing
at a hundred and fifty miles an hour, raising a long plume of sand dust
behind him.

Borden and Jerry fired together--two thin pencil rods of flame from the
golden-metal weapons. Sattell's ground car ran past them, crossing the
highway just a foot from the rock. The treads of the car disintegrated.
The car sped on, slid, and rolled clumsily, three separate times. Then
it stopped.

The oval side window turned and Sattell came crawling out. He had
a golden-metal weapon now. He must have searched feverishly in the
shambles of one of the two forts to find a weapon that still would
operate. He swung it frenziedly in their direction. He ran toward them,
screaming hate. He stumbled.

His weapon was firing, but the fire was short. He fell on it. Into its
flame.

And the ship's log and the star maps were in the ground car Borden and
Jerry had disabled.


CHAPTER


It was more than a month later when the _Danaë_, completely overhauled
and refueled, and with the product of Ellen's agriculture stored
carefully away, hovered cautiously over what had been the white spot.
At last they descended into the central square of the city that once
had been the center of a civilization.

The three of them spent a day examining that city. They found things
they could not understand, and things at which they smiled, and things
that were quite marvelous. Every civilization makes some discoveries
that others miss, and misses some that others take for granted. There
would be useful items in this civilization, when humans landed here and
examined the remains.

"I think," Ellen said, to Borden, "that you mean to come back."

Borden nodded, frowning a little.

"No rational natives," he said, "and eighteen thousand square miles of
oasis. It would make a rather wonderful place in which to live--with
that city and that civilization to study. Will you mind?"

Ellen laughed. She held out her hand. There were capsules in it.

"I've been planting more seeds," she said, "so there'll be Earth-type
vegetation here when we get back."

"And Jerry?"

Jerry said bashfully, "There's a girl.... If I can organize a group to
make a settlement here, I think I'll be back."

"Then we'll be back," said Borden. "And next time we'll bring some of
our furry friends down from the ice-cap and really find out what it
means to settle down and live here."

And then the _Danaë_ climbed for the stars and started back home.