He raised his fists in the air. "Say it's impossible if you like.
Repeat it a thousand times! But I saw her do it just the same!! I _saw_
it!"

Something inside me had pulled tight. Thoughts of the classroom flooded
into my mind. Long forgotten formulae, theories ... somewhere! The
voice droned on, charging the jurors:

"--having reviewed the evidence--"

I kept groping toward a page in a book. Somewhere there was a piece
that would fit in. "The majority ballot rules." It was going too fast
for me. They were calling for the vote.

"Juror Number One, please stand and tell the court; how do you find?"

With great deliberation, he turned his back on the defendant in the box.

"Juror Number One designates guilt. Juror Number Two, how do you find?"

Vortler was second. He stood and gazed at John Hastings for a long
moment. Then he raised his arms toward the defendant, palms upward.

"Juror Number Two designates innocence."

I went back to the classroom again and again. There was a thing waiting
there for me, but it had been so long ago.

The count was going fast....

"Juror Number Six, how do you find?" Bax. I knew his vote before he
cast it. He turned his back.

Where did it stand now? Four guilty, two innocent!

My heart began to pound. It felt as if I were standing on the edge of a
deep water. Where was it, that I groped after? I tried to shut myself
in and think.

The semi-circle was almost completed. The voice had reached the juror
on my left. Six men stood with their backs to John Hastings. Five stood
with their arms outstretched, "Juror Number Twelve, how do you find?"

I asked for help then. I asked the Lord to turn the pages. And I asked
Him to help Kitson too. Kitson raised his arms high. The score was even.

It waited until then to come. The piece ... the little piece, falling
on my brain from that half-forgotten book.

"Juror Number Thirteen, how do--?"

"Mr. Questioner," I cried. "I would like to interpose."

"It is incorrect procedure to interrupt the vote--"

"Yes, yes, I know." My voice shook. "But there is something I just
remembered. Something pertinent to what John Hastings saw."

"Can it prove anything further one way or the other?"

"I think so."

An unseen conference. "Very well. Dispensation granted. What is your
information?"

I took a deep breath. "John Hastings viewed his wife on Earth from one
of the planets of Alpha Centauri."

"That is correct."

My tongue was dry; my hands wet.

"Alpha Centauri is four years, four months distant, measuring in light
years. Therefore, in his travel, John Hastings lost three of those
months, but when he turned his instrument backward, he was looking at
light images which had started from the Earth long before he ever left
it. He was looking at--"

"_At ... what happened four years ago...._" John Hastings had finished
the sentence for me. He was looking at something as if it were the
first sunrise he had ever known.

Speculation brought the amphitheatre to its feet. For the only time
during the trial, the mob found its voice. Uncertainty, relief and
surprise mingled, ebbed and flowed.

The voice called for attention. "Quiet, please, quiet. The information
is correct," and the storm was over.

"Since the jury is thus far hung, we will leave the decision to the
last, thirteenth talisman. We would like your vote, Juror Thirteen. How
do you find?"

John looked at me. It was the first time since they had brought him in.

And I stretched my arms out toward him....

Who can say whether I was right or wrong? It is too delicate a thing to
come out all white or all black. But I think that in order for a man to
hate a woman so very much, it is also necessary for him to have loved
her very much, too.

And sometimes, I wake up, shaking, in the night. I am thinking of what
might have happened if I hadn't remembered that old discarded pannier,
or the way Mother transplanted the blue hydrangea bush before she died,
or how Dad swore when she made him throw that aneroid away. If I hadn't
remembered those things, I would never have seen the look on John's
face as he walked into my outstretched arms and said: "Is it time for
us to go home now, Mary? Is it?"