I walked into it after a night that held no sleep. And looked at
it. The yawning amphitheatre where humanity poured. And saw it. The
thirteen chairs raised high in the center. And heard it. The crowd's
susurrus gentling under insistent reminders from a bodiless Questioner.

I glanced at the faces in the other twelve boxes, recognizing some
of them. Angus Vortler, the psychosurgeon. William Bax, head of
Intergalactic, a bleak, wintery man who doodled constantly. Dollar
signs, probably. Fred Kitson, of the horny palms, chief mechanic on the
_Darkness_. All men who, because they had once reached out and touched
hands with John Hastings, were now called to judge him. Several of them
nodded to me as I took my place.

Wait.

They brought him in. I remembered the first time I had ever seen
him, in the classroom. Eager and tall ... tall and eager. Lord, what
changed him? Something had taken the straightness from his shoulders,
the sureness from his stride. There were furrows on his face where the
tears had already been.

He stood silently in the box where they had put him. A box just big
enough for his bulky body, and maybe a little of the misery he carried
with him.

A voice spoke.

"This, John Hastings, is your trial. You stand before this Court of
Truth-Probity, accused of registering the emotion of hate. A hatred
so violent, that had we permitted you to carry out your anticipated
actions, it would have resulted in the murder of one Mary Hastings,
your wife. Do you understand the charge?"

"I do." He didn't know what to do with his hands.

"How do you plead?"

"I plead not guilty."

"On what ground?" asked the voice.

The defendant raised his head. "On the ground that I had good and
sufficient reason to justify my emotion."

"The reactographs on your wife, Mary Hastings, have been thoroughly
examined, and it has been determined that she performed no act which in
any way deviated from the norm. Had any disturbances taken place within
Mary Hastings during the week of last March ninth to sixteenth, it
would have shown up plainly in a flux on the charts. Your contention is
impossible."

The man in the box bit his lip. "Nevertheless, I contend it. My wife
gave me sufficient reason. She--she was unfaithful to me."

Only silence for a full minute.

"It is impossible."

"_But_ true!" Hastings shouted.

The multitude leaned forward, a misted inquiry rustling its skirts.

"Very well," the voice almost sighed. "Will you submit, Captain
Hastings, to the use of the concentric screen? We wish to know more of
the circumstances surrounding several pertinent dates."

His face was the color of picked bones. "Yes, I will submit."

Two men advanced carrying a mesh complexity between them. Placing it
over the defendant's head they allowed it to fall to his shoulders.

"Are you ready, John Hastings?"

"Yes." It seemed he was already gone from the place.

"Then concentrate. Remember. Permit your mind to have freedom." The
voice washed over him in waves. "It is a day in December ... the
fourteenth.... Take my words and let them carry you...."

The screen above the defendant's head began to cloud and draw in.

"It is cold outside ... the snow is falling. There is a warm room. A
fire is burning...."

The mists opalesced and formed a nucleus.

"There is a pool of light on the desk, unexpected flowers in a bowl,
the odor of duck, roasted brown...."

Something was struggling for existence in the screen.

"There is a brown-haired woman--"

And the image was born....