"Enough, enough," a voice said. "You will rechannel your thoughts,
Captain Hastings. There is another day in time."

The screen misted, and the veils swirled.

"March eleventh ... on a ship ... a glazed splinter in blackness...."

The curtains quivered.

"Men gather tight against the void ... a clarinet wails ... there is
the smell of sweat...."

Kitson and Holmes were doing a dance. They had their breechskins rolled
over their knees, and four grapefruit tied to their fronts.

"Take it off ... take it off ... _take it off_!" The men rode a ground
swell of tinny music. Rhythm stamped out in the pattern of magnetic
boots fought with the sucking sound of beer cans. The air curled with
smoke.

Above their heads a hatch opened, and the Captain's legs appeared,
descending ladderwise. Abruptly, the melee subsided into leftover
clarinet tones.

"Mr. Kitson."

Kitson brought himself to attention, his grapefruit swinging. "Sir?"

"I've been informed there was news from home." The men looked at one
another.

"Only the broadcast from the Sector, sir. Nothing unusual."

"You took it down on the tapes?"

"Yes, sir."

"I should like to hear it." From one corner a reluctant shuffling
replaced the lately dead downbeats. The reproducer scratched badly.

"... at a banquet given for members of the committee. Prominent among
the guests was Mrs. Mary A. Hastings, wife of Captain John Hastings who
is making history in his FTL flight to Alpha Centauri. Captain Hastings
will test his invention, the electron-lightscope, from our neighboring
sun. It is reliably reported that the lightscope will revolutionize
astral observation, in that it will replace the telescope, and will
bring distant galaxies to within a few hundred feet of the earth.

"Mrs. Hastings, smartly gowned, was seated next to Co-ordinator Charles
Lathrop, who had--"

Someone jostled into the machine. The groove was lost.

Hastings spoke slowly. "I'd like to hear the rest of it."

Kitson was carefully unrolling his breechskins.

"I'd like to hear the rest of it, I said."

"Yes, sir," someone murmured.

"... was seated next to Charles Lathrop, who had escorted her to the
banquet, in the absence of the Captain. They danced frequently to the
strains of the Deimos Orchestra which was rocketed here for the pro--"

"That's enough," said Hastings, staring whitely.

The mechanic took two steps toward him. "Is something wrong, sir? You
look ill."

"Not at all, Mr. Kitson, not at all." His eyes snapped back to the man
in front of him, astraddle a newborn idea. "I was merely considering
Peeping Toms, Mr. Kitson."

"Beg pardon, Sir?"

"Peeping Toms. Never heard of them, have you?"

"No, sir. I don't think any of us have."

"What a pity. A most fascinating subject. Found in a twentieth century
history of the minor vices."

"Yes, sir."

"You display no curiosity, Mr. Kitson." His eyebrows raised. "In this,
you differ significantly from our Peeping Tom. _He_ wanted to know
a great many things, and he settled the whole matter with a pair of
binoculars." His voice sounded like scraped stone. "Yes indeed--_a pair
of binoculars_."

"I'm afraid I wasn't subjected to that facet of knowledge
indoctrination, sir." Kitson shrugged imperceptibly. When the captain
got like this--his shoulders spoke for him.

Hastings had caught the movement, however. "You find my words
uninstructive?"

"No, sir--I mean--"

"Very well." Something was growing big in the man. "Since you view your
deficiencies so lightly, you may report for punishment duty in the
morning."

"But, sir! I only said--"

"That will be all, Mr. Kitson." Hastings climbed the ladder, an ear
splitting silence hurrying him upward. His face appeared through
the hatch. A face withdrawn behind vacant eyes, ready to crumble.
"Remember, Kitson, I'll see you topside tomorrow. You will endeavor to
compensate for this most regrettable omission in your education, while
I--I will contemplate the advantages of twentieth century sins."

The hatch closed.

Everyone was suddenly very busy. Holmes picked up empty beer containers
and threw them into the deatomizer. A big sandy man laced and unlaced
the binding-pad on his bunk. Kitson sat down and stared vacantly.

After three or four minutes he said something.

"The sonovagun," he said. "The poor, poor, sonovagun."