Her husband regarded her a long, serious moment. "No. You're right
again." Leaning in to her, he spoke softly. "Did you know, Mary, that
it isn't the big things that make a man nervous any more? Only the
little things--"

"Say it!" she insisted. "Get it out. You'll feel better."

He hadn't moved. "Just the very little things. A supper unradiated. An
empty wrap hanger. An unfilled chair. Emptiness where there should be
something."

"Where has there been emptiness?" Mary was surprised.

"Between us."

"Oh darling ... that just isn't so."

"Isn't it?" He took her hands. "Cards on the table, Mary. Right?"

"Right!"

"You've been going to meetings for the last month."

"It's my turn on the committee."

"You've been out late quite a bit."

"I can't leave till they check me out...."

"There have been other people there."

She pulled her hands away and escaped to the other side of the room.
"Lots of them."

"But there was _one_ face in particular."

"Oh." There was a finality in it. "Who told you?"

"Does that matter?" His hand waved it aside. "Why didn't you tell me
Charles Lathrop was on the committee with you?"

"Because I knew how you'd feel." Instantly, she was at his side. "Oh
darling, don't you suppose I know what you think? You've never accepted
the fact that when I married you, my feeling for him was over and done."

"Is that true?"

"Yes, yes, yes! Can't you understand? What I felt for him four or five
years ago was that young thing everyone goes through."

"Young things grow. Great oaks...."

"Not this one. When you came, it was over. Is over."

He shook his head, and passed his hand over his face. "God knows I want
to believe that. You're my wife, Mary. I love every bit of you. But
Lathrop keeps bobbing up."

The fire crackled like dry leaves, rouging the unhappy walls. "There
are more questions?" she wanted to know.

"Yes."

"Ask them."

"Did you know he was going to be on the committee?"

"Of course not."

"Forgive me, Mary, but--but have you spent any extra time with him?"

"Oh John! We _talk_ at the meetings--'Hello--it's a roaring day--have
you heard the latest about Ganymede?'"

"That's all?"

"I swear."

"You don't feel anything?"

"Nothing. Absolutely nothing. He's a friend, a brother, a comfortable
dog."

The stiffness went out of Hastings. He sank back breathing hard, as
if he had been running too fast. "Mary, you don't know how good that
hears. You just don't know!"

"Oh my darling!" She held his head in her arms, her mouth close to his
ear. "Has it been this, all these months?"

The man nodded, laughing a little. "I just couldn't take the thought
that maybe--"

"Hush, hush! Don't even say it any more. Drink the wine and remember
what I said ... 'To its warm glow, like our home together.'"

His hand reached out, and trembling slightly, the fingers grasped, and
fumbled, and clutched at air. The glass shattered prettily, spilling
its golden life on the unalterable stone throat of the hearth.

And they stood there, hands untouching. Watching the glistening
fragments trap the last warm glow of the fire.