Impersonal words broke into the dream. "We have seen. It is
sufficient." The screen flickered and grew dim. "Can you stand further
probing, Captain? May we proceed?"

"Yes."

"There is yet one more time. March fifteenth."

"I remember."

"Then relax ... drift. There are two men. They hang above a yellow
sun ... space sleeps at their feet...."

An image formed and wavered and formed again.

"Their words are whispered ... they speak softly in the presence of
immensity...."

It crystallized....

"I'm asking as Vortler, your friend. Not Vortler, the psychosurgeon."

Side by side, they sat in the tattered light of the observation hull.
Centauri lay less than one day ahead. It dangled like a full, blush
peach, their silhouette its only bruised spot. Rockets hummed.

"There's no use asking any more questions Angus. The time for questions
is past. This is exams."

"That's what I mean, John. Remarks like that. You've gotten to be a man
who talks to himself."

Hastings sat without moving a muscle. "What did the men tell you?"

"Nothing actually." The other made a nasty sound. "No, that's true. I
didn't need them. I've seen it for myself this entire trip."

"And how do you diagnose it, Doctor?" A whisky bottle gleamed in the
light of the creamy sun.

"Just like that, he wants it. In two or three words. Where I need
books, where Freud took volumes, he wants it in two or three words."

"And the doctor doesn't have them," John said. Angus shook his head.
"But I do." He poured from the bottle. "She's seeing Charles."

Vortler snorted. "You're mistaken."

"No, I'm not. I've thought about her a lot these last three months, and
I think I know her now." He leaned his head back and shut his eyes.
"She's an August woman, Angus. An August woman. One night a warm breeze
comes through the door and sweeps a girl into your arms. You say
things, and she says things, and you both end up saying 'I do!' Then
she wakes up one morning to find she _doesn't_ any more. And another
door will open, another breeze carry her off."

"Mary's not like that."

"I didn't think so in the beginning."

"You surprise me, John. I thought you had more faith."

"Not any more. With me, it's what I can touch or smell or hear or see.
Nothing more."

"Then there's never any proof for you. You can't watch her every
minute."

John raised himself unsteadily, and stitched his finger into the air.
"That, my dear Doctor, is where you are wrong." He stood and groped his
way into the light of the cabin. Angus followed, trying to see his face.

"There is something more to this, John. Let's stop the riddles and say
what we mean."

The captain spun in sharp, stifled anger. "Shall I tell you, Angus?
Shall I let you in on my secret?" The anger detonated. "All right, damn
it! You came here for it. I'll give it to you! You know my lightscope?
Well, it works. It works fine!"

"What has this--?"

"Do you know what Johnny-boy has been doing with the blasted thing?" he
cried, "I've been using it to play inquirer. I've been using it to spy
on my wife."

The doctor's jaw dropped. "You have _what_?"

"That's right. Night after night, I've come back here. I've set up the
god-dammed thing--and I've scanned."

"This is incredible!"

"Three nights ago I found New York. Two nights ago, I co-ordinated
to the Hudson River. Last night I got as far as the third level.
Tonight--" his arms swept a circle--"East Lynne."

Vortler's hand smashed down. "It's got to stop! There's no reason for
this. I won't permit it."

"What can you do? It's my lightscope--my ship. My orders supersede
yours."

Vortler closed the space between them, his fists knobbed white. John
laughed. "Don't overdo it, Angus. I'm not worth it." The sound died to
a chuckle, "Besides, remember your emotiograph. Somebody will spank."

The doctor's hands opened slowly, a finger at a time.

"Tell me, Angus. Can you honestly blame me? I suspect my wife. I'm
trying to find out."

"But you're wrong!"

"It _could_ be. The thing is possible." He leaned toward the
psychosurgeon. "You think about it and tell me. It's _possible_?"

Vortler looked defeated.

"Yes."

"And that's that."

Angus started for the barway. "I don't know what started this thing
off, John. Perhaps if a man loves his wife a little too much, a thing
like this can happen. Maybe that's why they've watched our charts so
carefully."

Hastings was already talking to himself. "If I can just prove it one
way or the other. If I can just know she's--alone."

The white clad figure paused. "Think it over, John. Change your mind. I
don't like any part of it."

"Angus," John said softly. "I don't like it either. I don't want the
sight of Mary on that lens! To leave what print? A dream smashed? A
dishonor? Who knows?"

The doctor shook his head. "Look out the viewplate, John. What do you
see? Planet systems, galaxies, eons. What is one tiny less-than-a-mite
in all of that? What does it mean to you? The mind of the Almighty--or
a few cents worth of bone, and hair, and tissue? Ask yourself, John.
What do you see?"

He closed the barway behind him.

John followed and threw the pressure lock. Going to a sleek instrument,
his hands inquired softly along its lines. Cold as space. Sure. Doubt
proof. He swept the litter from his desk, and set the instrument in
its center. Levers spun, mirrors sent out chips of light, adjusters
adjusted.

Then, pausing, he moved to the viewplate and stood looking out a long
time. His hands mangled themselves constantly behind his back. A star
twinkled--one star in particular--as if through the prism of a cold
tear.

But he went back to the instrument, and bent to it slowly. And as he
gripped the desk, his knuckles erupted, pale as washed gravestones....

_And the graph lines shivered and glowed hot, and the hate came pouring
out of the shining needle between the stars, and somewhere a voice
called into space...._