IV.

Uncle Jabez Spins a Yarn.


The news of the capture of the whaleboat and its occupants soon became
known to the inhabitants of Eastham and the tidings were received
with dismay. The loss of the boat and her cargo was bad enough, but
the fact that two of the neighbors were prisoners and liable to be
sent across the ocean to Dartmoor caused consternation in the town.
Then, again, the incident clearly betokened a change of policy on
the part of the British. It was evident that the blockade was to be
enforced rigorously, and this meant a scarcity of those provisions
which the people were accustomed to get from Boston. Rye was plentiful,
but anything approaching luxury was out of the question under the
circumstances. The Committee of Safety was hastily convened, but after
a long discussion the meeting adjourned until some definite information
regarding the enemy’s movements could be obtained. Messengers were sent
to Provincetown with instructions to consult with the selectmen of that
place and get their views.

The prevailing gloom was apparent at Crosby’s tavern. The gossips were
gathered as usual, but there were no jokes going around; even Master
Walker refrained from any of his customary sallies. Uncle Jabez Rich
occupied his seat in the chimney corner, and as he philosophically
smoked his pipe, he seemed to be the only person untroubled by the
shadow of hard times.

“You don’t appear to be much worried about the future, Uncle Jabez?”
Peter remarked.

“The future, Master Walker, has been before me for nearly ninety years
but I have never overtaken it. The past is what an old man knows best.
The present must be left to the young.”

“There have been many changes in Eastham since you were a boy, Uncle
Jabez?”

“Aye, Master Walker, many changes, surely. In some ways the youngsters
now know more than grown people in my youth, and in other ways our
great scholars of today are far behind the men of learning who lived
here in the old days.”

Peter Walker saw that Uncle Jabez was in a reminiscent mood. The
occasion was ripe for stimulating the old man’s memory.

“I’ve heard my grandfather tell of those good times when Mr. Treat was
minister. That was before your time, Uncle Jabez. Grandfather was only
eighty when he died, but he hadn’t your memory.”

“No, Peter, few men have my memory, if I do say it myself. I was
only a boy at the time, but I well remember the days when Mr. Samuel
Osborn was minister. Ah, he was a rare man! It was not his piety that
recommended him to his flock, though he was a good man, too. It was his
way of doing good. He took hold of the things nearest to hand. Didn’t
your grandfather ever mention how Mr. Osborn taught the people the
value of peat for fuel when there was a scarcity of wood?”

“He used to say something of the sort, Uncle Jabez, but he got Mr.
Osborn mixed with the other minister, Mr. Webb.”

“Aye, Mr. Webb was one of the best men that ever lived but he had no
faculty for practical matters. He had the Middle Parish, and Mr. Osborn
had the South Parish. They were always the best of friends, though
their dispositions were very different. Didn’t you ever hear the story
of how the ‘Whidah’ was lost and how one of the two survivors used to
come to the Cape for years after in search of the pirate’s treasure?”

“We heard a little of the story, Uncle Jabez, but nobody seemed to know
it in full.”

“I know it in full, Master Walker.”

As Uncle Jabez said this the hearers became more interested and drew
nearer the chimney-place.

“Tell us about it, Uncle Jabez,” urged Obed Sparrow. “I have heard tell
of that strange man who frequented the dunes of Wellfleet years ago.
Nobody seems to know what was his end.”

Uncle Jabez was nothing loth to comply, and this is how his story ran.