In those old days, my masters, Eastham was a town of great importance
in the colony. From the bounds of Chatham and Harwich on the west,
it took in the rest of the Cape as far as Truro. It was the famous
corn-raising district of the colony, Nauset being known to the first
settlers as “the granary of the Cape.” It had many men engaged in the
fisheries and some went long voyages to southern lands in search of the
vintage of Santa Cruz and Jamaica, bartering the spoil of the ocean for
the products of the tropics. The Indians of the Nauset tribe, original
owners of the soil, were rapidly vanishing from the earth, though a
remnant of the nation still remained. They were a kindly race and lived
in peace with the white man. After King Philip’s War, the power of the
Narragansetts and the Wampanoags was broken, but the colony was still
subject to frequent alarms from the French and their Indian allies, who
were active in other parts of the state.

Some ten years before I was born, the Rev. Samuel Treat died. He
had served the people for forty-four years, and his funeral was the
occasion of great grief to all. He was beloved by the Indians. Two
years after this, the pirate ship “Whidah” was wrecked during a great
storm. One hundred and two bodies were washed ashore and buried on the
dunes. Only two of the crew survived, an Englishman and an Indian.
They disappeared almost immediately after they were rescued and nobody
knew where they went to. I have often heard my father describe that
fearful night. The raging ocean burst through the Cape, opening a
passage through which boats could pass. Daylight revealed a dreadful
sight. The sands were strewn with the bodies of the dead pirates. An
immense concourse gathered from all parts of the Cape to view the
scene and, if possible, to have their share of the treasure which Sam
Bellamy, the pirate captain, was supposed to have had on board.

Some of you, my masters, may know all of this; all of you may know
some of it, but as my story has to deal with the “strange man” who
frequented this district some years after the wreck of the pirate, I
hope I have not trespassed on your patience by this allusion to the
event which was responsible for the stranger’s appearance in our town.

Years passed by, and I was a stout lad of ten when I first heard of
this man. He had been seen on the Wellfleet beach, apparently searching
for something. The scene of his operations was just below the hut of
Goody Hallett, on the line between Eastham and what is now Wellfleet.
Goody Hallett lived alone. She was old and most people regarded her
as a witch, but this was probably because she kept much to herself.
She was expert at the spinning-wheel and ostensibly supported herself
by this industry. She never asked charity, though people wondered how
so old a woman could earn enough to keep her from want. She courted
seclusion, and the situation of her small dwelling, far removed from
the prying eyes of neighbors, favored this. A tall, thin woman, with
dark features strongly telling of Indian blood, her appearance went
far to confirm the idea that she rode the broomstick and could work
charms. She was not a native of this place. It was said she belonged to
a distant part of the Cape, beyond Yarmouth, and she arrived in Eastham
soon after the wreck of the “Whidah.”

The stranger was described as a man of fierce aspect. His beard and
mustachios were originally coal-black but time had whitened the pointed
ends. His face was scarred in many places. Those who brought the news
of his presence said that when he discovered that he was being watched
his features were contorted with passion and his expression was that
of the Evil One. Allowing for some exaggeration on the part of the
frightened beholders, there could be no doubt but that this stranger
of forbidding mien desired to avoid the observation of the inhabitants
while he pursued his mysterious search of the sands.

One evening in the late Fall, when the first snowflakes began to whiten
the ground, my father and I had made all snug for the night and were
leaving the barn when we heard the sound of a horse’s hoofs approaching
the house. Soon the wayfarer entered the yard and a cheerful voice
greeted us.

“Give ye good e’en, Goodman Rich! Like a careful husbandman thou hast
made thy beasts comfortable. Now, in the hospitality of thy heart,
couldst thou find place below the salt for a weary guest at the
bounteous feast which awaits thee? And how is my young friend Jabez?”

It was the Rev. Mr. Osborn. My father gave him hearty welcome, bade
him dismount and enter. He stabled the horse while the minister was
made welcome by my mother. Soon we were seated at table and Mr. Osborn
continually praised the good things which my mother had set before us,
a fact which pleased her greatly.

He was a man of genial temperament, free-spoken and always ready for
his joke. Some of the stricter members of the South Parish church did
not like his easy ways, but he had done much good among the people
and, as yet, the mutterings of his enemies were scarcely heard. He had
come from Ireland in the early years of the century and he had some
of the faults as well as many of the virtues of his native land. His
views on Christianity were broad; in fact, too broad for the elders of
his church, as was afterward shown by his dismissal from the parish
after trial by an ecclesiastical court. He had rejected the Calvinism
in which his congregation had been reared. But he was a great man,
and from him I learned many of the lessons which formed part of my
equipment as schoolmaster in after years. He retained much of the old
manner of speech which was then giving place to the modern form.

“I have been to Truro to see my good friend Mr. Avery, goodman, and I
dallied on my way home, so that is the reason of my forcing myself on
your hospitality for the night.”

“You are heartily welcome, Mr. Osborn,” said my mother. “The
guest-chamber is all prepared.”

“Aye, goodwife, I well knew I should not find thy hospitable mansion
unprepared. My friend Mr. Avery is not in the best of health. In the
course of his exacting ministerial duties he caught a chill, but it is
not serious. One of the best and most Godly of men and a true father to
his spiritual children.”

“He is no better than yourself, sir!” exclaimed my mother.

The minister smiled somewhat sadly. “I fear me much, goodwife, that I
can never reach the higher altitudes of sanctity where these saintly
men live. The even tenor of their ways is never troubled by the doubts
which sometimes harass mine. Perchance it is because I have seen so
much of the evil of intolerance in my own country that I am sick at
heart to see it powerful in this great new land. I have offended the
elders of the South Parish by mildly hinting that the good Lord might
even look with favor on a Papist if the misguided brother was honest in
his interpretation of the Master’s will.”

“But,” he continued, “let us not spoil this happy occasion by
theological discussion. I had quite an adventure on my way to Truro
last night. Strange things are happening in our midst, Goodman Rich.
Dost wish to hear what befell me?”

“Aye, sir, and if you please,” answered my father. “But before you
commence, the goodwife will mix you a brew from the last wreck.”

My mother was skilled in the art of concocting a life-giving draught
based on the Jamaica which came ashore from the wreck of the brig
“Mary,” and soon we were listening to the minister’s tale which I give
in our own speech.