IX.

The Prisoners Talk It Over.


Before the prisoners retired to their quarters that night they
discussed the situation earnestly. Hoppy had no doubt whatever that
Raggett intended to use him as the “proper man” for the work of
piloting the British tenders and barges in the shallow waters of the
bay. He told his companion in misfortune that there was no use in
outwardly resisting the plans of the British commander.

“It’s just like this, Win: Raggett knows that you will have no
difficulty in getting that three hundred dollars in Boston and that you
cannot put forward any excuses to the contrary. I don’t think he would
die of a broken heart if you never turned up with the money. What’s
such a small amount divided among his crew?”

“It certainly doesn’t look very large, Hoppy, but when he keeps adding
to it all the time the total will amount to something. He has started
on his new policy, and ’tis hard to tell where it will all end. You
know what we heard about his intention to demand tribute from the
towns?”

“Supposing the towns refuse to pay tribute, what then?”

“Well, Hoppy, I think that’s rather a foolish question. Why, man, what
can the unfortunate towns do but pay? You don’t mean to tell me that
they can defy the whole British squadron, do you?”

“Why not?” demanded Hoppy fiercely. “Can’t you see how the thing
stands? Raggett won’t take his ship into the shallow waters. He has no
proper knowledge of the conditions just outside the bars, and if you
were taking any notice you might have heard me purposely exaggerate the
danger of trusting to his charts. He won’t take any chances of getting
stranded, I can tell you, and he will keep at a safe distance. Then, if
he intends to attack the villages he must depend on his barges to land
his forces.”

“And what’s to prevent him from doing that?”

“His common sense, man. Supposing he decides to land a strong force,
and it must be pretty strong if our people put up any sort of a fight,
he must do so at high water. Well, the flats extend for more than a
mile to seaward and the landing party must make pretty good use of the
time to be able to get away safely before the ebb catches the boats on
the flats. Raggett has only about three hundred men on the ‘Spencer,’
and the ‘Nymph’ and the ‘Bulwark’ are not likely to leave their own
stations to assist him, unless in case of great need. His landing party
might number two hundred fighting men, but I doubt it. That would leave
his ship pretty shorthanded in case of disaster to the barges. And why
shouldn’t they meet disaster? Are the men of Cape Cod going to imitate
old Samoset and say once again ‘Welcome, Englishmen!’? I don’t believe
it!”

“But you must remember, Hoppy, that the people are very poorly equipped
for a fight against the well-armed enemy?”

“I know that; but, as I pointed out just now, the flats will more than
compensate for the difference in that way. There is too much risk about
landing a large force and Raggett will not take it. If Eastham, Orleans
and Brewster join forces to repel the invaders they will surely beat
them.”

“I wish I could look at it in your way, Hoppy, but I can’t. The
‘Spencer’ could get close enough to destroy the salt works, anyway.”

“The salt works be damned! Good God, man! this is war, and something
has to go. Her artillery can’t do very much damage to the town which,
after all, is only a sparsely settled place. She will be too far off
shore for the range, though, of course, she’s bound to do some injury
to property. I tell you, Win, that Raggett will make a big show but he
will not weaken his ship by detailing two-thirds of his crew for shore
work. When he decides on doing it he will take care to have the other
ships with him.”

Captain Knowles was a man of tried courage. He would not be found
wanting when the test came, but his best judgment would not allow
him to take Hoppy’s view of the case. There was great truth in much
of Hoppy’s summing up, but to Win it appeared incredible that the
outcome of any clash of arms could be otherwise than disastrous to the
Americans.

“It’s all very well to say the salt works be damned, Hoppy, but I can
tell you the owners of the works won’t let their property be destroyed
if they can save it by paying a reasonable sum for immunity. Then, it’s
not quite certain that Brewster and Orleans would be able to do much
for Eastham.”

“Brewster has an artillery company, though it’s not very well
organized. Still, it has two pieces and they could be made useful if
properly handled. There’s one thing I’m very sure of; Orleans will put
up a good fight if the British attack that town.”

“Yes, I heard Orleans means to fight. I fear it will be a useless
sacrifice of life.”

“Well, Win, we had better wait a little longer and postpone the
argument until we have more information on the subject. What’s your
idea about Raggett’s proposal? Do you think he really desires to see
you back with the money?”

“Certainly I do.”

“Well, I don’t. My opinion is that he wants to get rid of one of us.
One is enough for his purpose and I have told you what that purpose is;
so, Win, I don’t expect to see you again while I’m on this ship.”

“He can’t prevent me from returning with the money.”

“Oh, yes, he can. You can’t reach the ‘Spencer’ without his permission,
and while he thinks he can use me he won’t grant that permission.”

“Then you are going to act as his pilot?”

“That’s a hard way to put it, Win. It may be that he wants to correct
his charts and in that case I shall be obliged to go with his surveying
party. It won’t help him very much, I can promise you. I have an idea
of what’s going to happen, but I may be mistaken. I shall have to trust
to my wits in the matter; but there’s one thing I can tell you right
here, and I want you to bear it in mind: Hoppy Mayo will never turn
traitor to his country, though for some time to come he must be trusted
to play the game in his own way.”

“All right, Hoppy, I’ll tell them what you said. There’s nobody in
Eastham will believe you to be a traitor.”

Win reached his hand and his comrade grasped it warmly.

Next morning Captain Knowles was put on board the schooner. As the
little craft made sail and started on her voyage, Hoppy waved farewell
to his friend, more than ever convinced that he should not see him
again on the “Spencer.”

Captain Raggett sent word to Hoppy that the latter could have the
freedom of the ship provided he promised not to attempt to escape.
He was also informed that orders had been given to supply him with
clothing or anything else he required. Hoppy readily gave the promise
and thanked the commander for his thoughtfulness.

As the day went on, Hoppy Mayo noticed that everybody on board the
frigate seemed to be very busy. There was no interference with his
leisure and from his seat by one of the guns he was an interested
observer of the movements of the nimble sailors as they jumped from
place to place in obedience to the orders of the officers. So far as
he could see, there was no occasion for all the bustle, but at that
time he was not aware that this incessant training was Raggett’s way of
keeping his men in condition for service at a moment’s notice.

Hoppy’s usually buoyant spirits were depressed by the events of the
day before and by the departure of his comrade. During the dinner
hour he listlessly followed the movements of a small skiff that was
zigzagging its way from the shore, its solitary occupant clumsily
handling the oars. When the skiff came within hailing distance of the
frigate the oarsman paused as if irresolute about venturing nearer the
warship. Soon the sound of music came over the waters and Hoppy started
to his feet as he recognized the familiar notes of Phil the Fifer. The
officer of the deck, who had been intently watching the skiff, laughed
heartily, and if he had any anxiety as to the boatman’s intentions it
was entirely dispelled. Hoppy heard him remark to a brother officer:

“That’s the old pedler who amuses the crew with his droll sayings and
his fife. He’s a favorite with the captain, but I’m not sure that we
can allow him on board now.”

In answer to his hail the skiff came alongside. Phil pulled off his old
hat and cheerfully accosted the officer:

“Bedad, Lieutenant Jameson, it’s a cure for sore eyes to see your honor
agin! An’ what is all this throuble about that I can’t enthertain me
old customers any more with a tune on the old fife?”

“We should be very glad to see you on deck, Phil, but the captain’s
orders are strict about admitting strangers aboard.”

“Sthrangers! Well, lieutenant, but that bates the divil. When was old
Phil a sthranger among the fine min o’ this ship, I’d like to know?”

“Sorry, Phil, but it can’t be helped this time.”

Hoppy was puzzled at all this and he came to the side to look on. Phil
caught sight of him and giving him a significant wink, said:

“Bedad, lieutenant, it seems to me that thim ordhers is aisily broken!
That gintleman up there is a sthranger to me, anyway! I don’t remimber
ever havin’ seen him before, an’ his uniform ain’t that of the king of
England!”

The officer smiled. “Oh, Phil, that’s an American visitor who is
spending a few days on board.”

“The Americans is a frindly people, sure enough, lieutenant, an’ I have
no doubt they injoy your company, only it’s a mighty quare time to be
showin’ off how much they like you! You’ll excuse me, sir,” addressing
Hoppy, “but might I ax what part o’ the counthry you came from? Maybe
you’d be wantin’ some o’ my little wares for your thrip?”

By this time Hoppy could plainly see that old Phil was playing a deep
game and that part of it was his desire to avoid an open acknowledgment
of acquaintance with him; therefore, he answered:

“I’m from Connecticut, my good man. Captain Raggett will supply me with
everything needful, so I don’t think I require anything from you.”

This seemed to amuse Lieutenant Jameson. “Captain Mayo,” he said,
“perhaps the old pedler has some little articles which you may require?
If so, there can be no harm in your going over the side to inspect his
stock. The orders are not to let strangers aboard, but I don’t see
anything objectionable in your examining his stock.”

Phil’s heart beat fast now. He never expected such a chance as this! In
a moment Hoppy was in the skiff and while he was pretending to examine
the wares, Phil managed to convey to him the purpose of his visit.
Hoppy was astonished and grateful for the tidings. As the pair made a
great show about bargaining for needles and such things, he whispered
how the case stood and asked Phil to tell his friends ashore not to
lose faith in him even if some things appeared strange to them.

It was all over in a few minutes. As Hoppy reached the deck with a
few small articles, Phil the Fifer was profusely thanking Lieutenant
Jameson for his kindness.

“May God bless your honor, but it’s you that knows how to help a poor
man! Thim Connecticut Yankees is hard to plaze, though. Now, I won’t
bother your honor any longer as I can’t do any business with me good
frinds aboard this time. Tell thim I’ll come agin. Goodby, lieutenant,
and good luck!”

Then the pedler turned the prow of his skiff shoreward, highly elated
that he had succeeded in his mission.