XI.

An Argument.


The trusty pedler made no unnecessary delay on his return journey from
Provincetown. The sandy road somewhat retarded his progress, but Master
Walker’s horse was a good one and needed little urging. There were,
of course, some necessary explanations to be made to the Provincetown
committee, and the worthy citizens who had charge of affairs in that
place were much disturbed when they got confirmation of the rumor that
the British were fully determined to assume the offensive in earnest.
So far as Provincetown was directly concerned, Raggett’s change of
front would not materially add to the troubles of the inhabitants, who
were already completely at the enemy’s mercy. But for their neighbors
and friends in the other towns of the lower Cape, Master Jonathan Cook
and his colleagues were deeply concerned.

“You will tell them at Eastham, Phil,” said the chairman, “that we
regret our inability to be of any assistance to them. Our own poor town
is in a sad plight and I fear me if this war continues much longer we
shall have a repetition of the exodus of Revolutionary times.”

“An’ sure I will, Master Cook, an’ sorry I am to see this fine town in
such a bad state. ’Twas mighty aisy for a poor man to make a dacint
livin’ here a few years ago when the fishin’ was bringin’ loads o’
money to the people. But now, God help us! the good days are gone an’
nobody has any money more than they want for thimselves.”

“That’s so, Phil. However, we hear that our privateers are doing great
damage to the enemy’s commerce, and when John Bull finds his trade in
danger he will want the war stopped.”

With many expressions of sympathy, they bade the pedler Godspeed.

When Peter Walker heard Phil’s story he lost no time in informing the
Committee of Safety. It was too late that evening to call a public
meeting, but there was a crowded attendance at Crosby’s tavern and Phil
the Fifer was eagerly questioned regarding his interview with Hoppy.

“I reckon Hoppy felt rather miserable, Phil? How did he like the idea
of acting as pilot?” asked Obed Sparrow.

“To tell you the truth, Master Sparrow,” replied Phil, “Captain Mayo
didn’t like the position; but as to bein’ miserable, well, I don’t
think it’s his nature to feel so at any time.”

“It’s a wonder that British officer did not suspect something.”

“Oh, Lieutenant Jameson is a rale gintleman, an’ he knows, besides,
that old Phil wouldn’t desave him!”

The old man’s innocent expression as he said this caused general
laughter.

“If he should hear the result of your visit, Phil, he won’t be so
confiding the next time,” said Squire Knowles.

“Faith, an’ I’m sure he won’t, squire. But I’m thinkin’ it will be a
long time before the lieutenant will see me agin. This war will soon be
over, plaze God, an’ the foreigners will sail away an’ lave the people
o’ Cape Cod in paice wance more.”

“What makes you think so, Phil?”

“Well, squire, I heard some talk in Yarmouth about the work o’ the
American privateers among the British ships, an’ Master Cook o’
Provincetown told me the same story. ’Tis said that John Bull is
grumbling about the loss he’s sufferin’ an’ that the big merchants o’
London won’t stand it much longer. Our frind John is like the rest of
us, he hates to get touched in the pocket.”

“So Hoppy is going as pilot,” said Captain Jared Higgins; “that’s about
the last thing I’d expect from Hoppy Mayo!”

“As I told you,” replied Phil to this, “Captain Mayo said that some
people might think it quare that he agreed to it; but you needn’t fear
about him, Captain Higgins; he’ll never turn thraitor. Whatever he has
in his mind to do I can’t tell you, but from the little he told me I
can see that his mind is workin’ hard at some plan to get the betther
o’ the inimy. All I know is that he wanted you to have faith in him,
an’ anywan who knows Captain Mayo will find that enough.”

“That’s right, Phil; I firmly believe Hoppy will outwit them!” cried
Peter Walker.

“This war will beggar the people of Cape Cod, anyway,” growled Captain
Jared. “If the President took Governor Strong’s advice there would be
no war.”

This was Captain Jared’s great point in his antagonism to the war
policy of the national government. His prolonged idleness was having a
bad effect on his temper and the gallant old seaman was always ready
and willing to argue at any length in support of his views. Not many
cared to enter the lists with the captain; but Peter Walker, a strong
supporter of the administration and Jared’s foremost opponent, remarked:

“The President has more sense than to listen to such people as Cale
Strong, Jared, and there’s lots of people on Cape Cod who don’t think
much of the same Cale.”

“Is that so, Peter?” Captain Jared turned fiercely to where Peter sat
in his accustomed place. “Everybody knows that you can’t lose much by
the war. What is it to you if the British destroy the salt works? You
took good care to sell your share in the salt business to Ed. Clark,
though I’m not saying that you did so on account of the war. Still,
if a man has so little to lose as you have in that way, it don’t seem
right for him to find fault with those who suffer most.”

Peter’s goodhumor was proof against this assault. “Well, Jared,” he
replied, “I think I gave Ed. quite a good bargain in the matter, and
he seemed to be satisfied. What I want to show you is this: Strong
received 53 votes at the last election and Dexter got 31. That was
the vote of Eastham and it shows that there are thirty voters besides
myself who agree with the President of the United States as against
Governor Strong.”

“I’m willing to bet that most of the thirty owe you money for
horseshoeing!” retorted Captain Jared, “and, anyway, Peter, ’tis easy
to tell who they are; they are your cronies who spend most of their
time in your shop listening to your rhymes making fun of the neighbors,
and enjoying it, too. The fools don’t know that you’ll be after
themselves soon!”

Roars of laughter greeted this thrust at Peter and Obed Sparrow cried:

“That’s right, Captain Jared! you are the man to down Peter.”

Jared gave Obed a withering glance. “Good Lord, Obed Sparrow!” he
exclaimed, “to think of your putting in your oar when you just echo
every word that comes from Peter’s mouth! I’ll give Peter the credit of
being able to twist you and your fellows about his little finger when
he wants your votes; but by George, that’s no reason why you should
interfere in this argument.”

Obed looked crestfallen at this rebuke. Peter rallied to his support.

“Why, Jared, Obed is one of the most independent men in this town,
and you know it. Obed’s vote isn’t for sale like some others we know
that followed the Strong party, and I don’t mean you by that, Captain
Higgins.”

Obed was grateful for this testimony to his integrity. He plucked up
courage to return to the fray.

“Thank you, Master Walker. I suppose Captain Jared also believes that
you made the Orleans voters go against Strong! That town gave 101 for
Dexter and only 21 for Strong. If all the people there who went against
Cale Strong owe you money you must have a lot of names on your books!”

“Don’t talk to me about Orleans, Obed Sparrow,” cried Captain Jared;
“they are the most pig-headed of all the war party. Simeon Kingman is a
firebrand and he is ably assisted by John Kenrick.”

“If Squire Kingman and Master John Kenrick are firebrands, Captain
Jared, they are backed by their townsmen in the firing. They have
always been leading men in their town and they wouldn’t be if they
didn’t prove themselves worthy.”

“I’m not saying anything against their characters, Obed. They are
friends of mine though I don’t agree with their politics. They think
they can defy the British fleet! Any fool should know that you can’t
beat off a heavily armed force with a few old muskets, and, so far as I
know, that’s about all the arms they have.”

“Then you don’t believe in fighting, Captain Jared?”

“Obed, you are a young man and you have proved yourself a brave man.
I have no right to find fault with you for asking that question, but
in my young days we were taught to believe that men whose gray beards
betokened years of experience behind them had seen some of the ups and
downs of life and could fairly advise us in our troubles. I am close to
my seventieth year and in my time I have seen bloody deeds done afloat
and ashore. Like you, at one time I thought the quick answer and the
ready blow most became a man, and even yet I think there are occasions
when there is no other course open to a man of honor. It was on such
an occasion that I got this wound, Obed; but the Barbary pirate who
inflicted it never lived to harm anybody else.”

There was intense silence as Captain Jared opened his shirt front and
displayed a terrible scar across his chest.

“When you ask me if I believe in fighting, Obed, I can call this to
witness, though the occasion doesn’t often arise when a man doubts
my word. If your uncle Jethro could come to life he might tell you
of that terrible night in the Straits of Gibraltar when the pirates
boarded us and five stalwart Yankees gave their lives in defence of
their ship.”

The crowd was deeply stirred by the old man’s words and Obed Sparrow
impulsively shouted:

“By the Lord, Captain Jared! I humbly ask your pardon. I never doubted
your willingness to fight, but my question applied to the present
trouble. I’m sorry I said anything about it now.”

“That’s all right, my lad,” answered Captain Jared; “all I ask is that
if some of us believe the unfortunate people of these villages can get
out of their troubles without bloodshed and utter ruin we shall not
be considered any less anxious to uphold the honor of the flag than
those who advocate sterner work against the enemy. For my own part, I
am willing to abide by whatever the Committee of Safety and the people
decide on.”

“Bravo, Captain Jared!” exclaimed Peter Walker. “That’s the proper
way to look at it. And now, friends, I think it’s time to go home,
especially as Neighbor Crosby is doing very little business these hard
times!”

“Very little, indeed, Master Walker, but I’m expecting something
overland soon.”

“Glad to hear it, Master Crosby. Good night!”