Sheldon swung about.

"You didn't tell me they knew how to operate disintegrators!" he said,
wildly. He gripped her shoulders as he spoke, so fiercely that she
cried out.

"No, no, you don't understand. Gale forbade them to approach the weapon
room under penalty of death. To them the room was taboo, the power
weapons terrible living shapes of wrath. But rage does strange things
to the mind. They must have heard what Gale said to you."

"But if they've never used such weapons, what does this mean?"

"That means nothing," she said, her lips shaking. "How much
intelligence does it take to depress a pedal blast release? A child
could try, couldn't he? Couldn't he, Roger?"

"Yes," Sheldon said, quietly. "A child could try. And those weapons
would be far more dangerous in the hands of a child than they would be
in our hands."

The veins on Sheldon's forehead were thick blue cords, and sweat
dripped onto his fingers as he stared into the glass.

Suddenly a convulsive shudder shook him. In utter silence he swung back
to the board and started tugging and jerking at the controls. Thirty
seconds passed. A minute. Two.

In the glass a terrifying scene was taking place. The savages had drawn
closer to the ship, and were converging upon it from three sides. As
they advanced their lips writhed back from their teeth, and their hands
tugged and jerked at the massive weapons which they were clasping now
to their shaggy breasts.

"They're not--going to get--a chance to try," Sheldon muttered,
fiercely. "Not much of a chance, anyway."

As he spoke the board began to vibrate and a dull, steady droning
filled the control room.

Under the fierce blasts of her atomic jets the ship took off with a
roar. It took off and then swept back over the Station as Sheldon
strove to avoid the shattering backlash of a too suddenly released
energy surge.

He swooped very low, almost skimming the highest of the Station's seven
towers, and bringing the elevated central section so near that the
landing platform filled the glass.

For a terrifying brief instant the tiny figures moving far below were
visible in the glass. Then gigantic bursts of flame came in livid
spurts from the almost invisible weapons in their clasp, blotting them
from view, and sending a wave of thick, black smoke swirling over the
platform.

Before the smoke could clear the ship was hurtling skyward, the Station
dwindling in the glass.

It was some moments before Sheldon spoke.

"All those blasters went off simultaneously," he said, in a stunned
voice. "For an instant I thought those devils were smarter than we'd
given them credit for. But it wasn't their blind fumblings which
exploded the weapons. It was the surge of energy from our stern atomic
jets."

Sheldon's words died.

In the precise middle of the plate the Station hovered, enveloped in a
luminous haze. The explosion began at the edges of that haze. It began
with something which reminded Sheldon of the sparking of crisscrossing
electric wires in a turgid blanket of mist.

The sparking continued for a full minute, increasing rapidly in
brightness and seeming almost to detach itself from the glass. It was
followed by a tremendous surge of light that appeared almost to shatter
the glass.

The instant the flash vanished the Station split in two. The two parts
shot away from each other to hang for an instant suspended in the
void. Then each part began to jerk about and split up into smaller and
smaller fragments, while blast after blast lit up the screen.

The explosions continued for several minutes. When they stopped nothing
remained of the Station but a hazy spiral of dissolving smoke.