In 2022 a dozen men could have destroyed the Earth. Instead, on that
little self-contained macrocosm, containing accommodations for fewer
than a hundred men, women and children, the first interstellar ship had
been constructed and powered with undreamed of energies.

To that little macrocosm the ship was now returning, piloted by one of
those twelve men.

Sheldon would have thrown back his head and laughed long and heartily
if someone had suggested that power could go to the head of a man like
John Gale. Nominally Gale, a great bundle of immense kindliness, as
selfless as a carven Buddha, was in command of the Station. But it was
of no great consequence who was in command, because those men really
could be trusted.

Sheldon stiffened abruptly. His eyes shifted from the control board to
the observation glass. Unmistakably the gravity scanners had picked
up a moving object in the darkness ahead, and were transmitting it to
the glass, line by hazy line until a filmy opacity was hovering in the
precise middle of the instrument.

Sheldon recognized the Station from the peculiar flatness of its
contours. At a quarter million miles it showed up as a misty ovoid,
flattened at both ends and faintly rimmed with light. By pressing hard
with its thumb on both sides of a clay egg a child could have produced
a fair facsimile of the Station as it appeared in the glass, except
that the image was in rapid motion.

At a hundred million miles Sheldon cut all but two of the stern jets,
and prepared to bring the ship in. His face was haggard with strain.
He had given up trying to contact Gale. He'd know in a moment, he told
himself grimly, why his signals had been ignored. Until he did know
it was useless to speculate about the reason, or reasons, for Gale's
silence.

The ship made a perfect nine-point landing, almost drifting in over
the uppermost of the two sectional metal platforms which jutted out
from the Station's central section like the wings of a colossal,
space-spawned bat.

Five minutes later Sheldon was emerging from the gravity lock into a
glow which lighted the darkness about him in all directions. Beyond the
glow immense shadows crouched. When he raised his eyes he could see the
stars, clusters of them winking just beyond the rim of the great bulk
of floating metal from which he'd taken off six months previously.

His features were almost unbelievably haggard now, and he felt as
though he'd left a part of himself in the vast reaches of utter
darkness which lay between the stars.

He had left the shadow cast by the ship and was moving toward the edge
of the platform when he heard a voice.

"Stop!" it yelled. "Who you?"

Startled, Sheldon swung about. As he did so a gaunt, massive-browed
figure detached itself slowly from the shadows and came shambling
toward him.

For an instant Sheldon stared in utter disbelief, a coldness encircling
his scalp. The figure was that of a seven foot giant, with bulging
biceps and a tangle of coarse black hair on his chest. His features
were repulsively apelike. His apparel consisted solely of a soiled and
tattered waist-cloth which encircled his hips, and clung loosely to his
hairy thighs.

As Sheldon returned the brutish creature's stare he perceived with
sudden horror that he wasn't clasping a modern weapon of science but an
enormous wooden hatchet which gleamed dully in the steady glow.

Even the blade of the weapon was made of wood, but so sharply edged was
it that Sheldon was under no illusion as to what would happen if he
gave the giant an excuse to send it crashing against his skull.

"Where's Gale?" he demanded, realizing the futility of the question
even as he asked it. "I've got to talk to him. You hear? Gale!"

Sheldon wasn't prepared for the convulsive hate which flared in the
giant's stare the instant he recognized the elderly scientist's name.
That the savage creature did recognize Gale's name was startlingly
evident, for he repeated it slowly, his lips writhing back from his
teeth.

"Gale!" he snarled. "Him very old. Many years dead."

It seemed to Sheldon that an abyss had opened up beneath him, filled
with a blackness so bottomless that he was powerless to adjust himself
to it. He stood staring at the giant in stunned disbelief, his face a
bloodless mask.

With terrifying suddenness the giant's immense hairy hand shot out to
fasten on Sheldon's shoulders.

"You come to find Gale?" he snarled.

Sheldon struggled then. Foolishly he tried to free himself, clasping
the giant's wrist, and tugging at it with all his strength. With a
desperation born of terror he even tried to wrench the hatchet from the
savage creature's clasp.

He succeeded only in further enraging the brute. Shaking his arm free,
the giant snarled savagely, raised the hatchet, and brought it down on
Sheldon's skull.

Just how violently Sheldon was not to know, for the instant the blade
struck him a terrible, light-lanced blackness exploded inside his
head. With a groan he sank down, rolled over, and lay still.