It was incredible and a little frightening. The rocket ship was within
a half million miles of the Station, but as yet no reply had come to
the frantic signals which Roger Sheldon had been sending out at ten
second intervals.

He sat before the observation glass in the control room, a big man with
the competent hands of an experienced navigator, and a curious mobility
of expression which seemed out of keeping with the precise movements
which those hands were making on the board.

His face was that of a man who had gazed on great unfathomable star
fields smouldering in the depths of space and then--had deliberately
curbed his exaltation and turned back to concern himself with the
little affairs of Earth.

In three months and two days Roger Sheldon had passed completely beyond
the Sun's gravitational tug into the utter darkness, the chill bleak
immensity of interstellar space. To have accomplished more he would
have bartered all the years of his youth. He had hardly dared hope to
accomplish as much.

Now he was returning to the Station with his thoughts in a turmoil. His
nerves were so taut he was afraid to relax even for the brief instant
it would have taken him to shake a few grains of amytal into his palm
and inhale the fumes.

For two generations the Station had encircled the Earth, an outpost of
security bright with promise, the concrete embodiment of humanity's
determination not to destroy itself.

While atomic research had remained in the uranium fission stage, the
vast laboratory facilities of Earth had not endangered humanity. Even
the first atomic bombs had not placed an intolerable strain on man's
capacity to survive the hazards of working together toward a shared
goal.

But the tremendous series of explosions which had rocked the Earth on
June sixteenth, in 1969, had convinced even men of good will that a
controlled, disciplined release of the mighty forces locked up within
the atom could no longer take place on Earth.

It could only be allowed in an orbit far enough removed from Earth
to jeopardize only the Station itself and the lives of a few men.
Carefully integrated psychometric tests had shown that not more than
a dozen men could coordinate their efforts under the constant threat
of annihilation without developing personality quirks as dangerous
as trigger neutrons would have been in the days of the New Mexico
experiment.

Seventy million miles from the Earth the Station moved through the
interplanetary night, a mile-long floating laboratory. This laboratory
was equipped with every safety device known to modern science for the
control of energies powerful enough to disrupt every vestige of matter
within a half million miles of its orbit.