She nodded. He was asking _her_ if she knew what loneliness was!

He started for the bathroom, as though to avoid thinking of something.

"Everything ready for my love?" he asked nervously.

"Yes," she said. Yes, the robot says. Yes, my love, everything is ready
for your love.

"Good."

In the bathroom, Kelsey looked in the full length mirror, and Alice
watched him.

"Master Kelsey," the Mirror said, softly critical. "You're not smiling."

"But I am."

"Yes, but not enough."

Kelsey touched his lips and stretched his face muscles. The Mirror
said, "People are uneasy when you don't smile."

Alice knew how much Kelsey respected his Mirror. It had cost him so
much, and it was the most popular item advertised on Tevee. It was
finely attuned to Kelsey's personality. It knew when he was not looking
exactly right to meet the strict demands of the crowd.

"Smile and the group will love you," the Mirror said. "Frown, and you
may frown alone."

Kelsey was suddenly smiling intensely, as though his very life had been
threatened.

"That's better," the Mirror said.

Alice had tried so hard and so often to smile, pulling at the plastoid
stuff of her face. She guessed that Humans were supposed to smile all
the time, and robots never. Why should a robot smile. A robot had
nothing to sell. It had routine functions, but it had nothing to sell.

Kelsey zipped himself out of his clothes and jumped into the shower. He
was six feet tall. He had blue eyes and wavy hair with streaks of brown
in the Viking yellow. His skin was golden and his muscles moved with
fluid healthy power. His daily stint in the male beauty clinic at the
factory kept him in top condition. And the Mirror was always alert to
detect any flaw in his outward appearance.

But who will love you when you're old, Master Kelsey? When the gold
turns gray and the muscles shrink and the teeth decay and the eyes turn
pale and the body is bent with the squeezing hands of time?

Let me stay, darling Kelsey. Let me stay forever, and I'll love you
when you're old.

Seeing his strong naked beauty there, she felt her machinery pounding
and the burning in her eyes. It wasn't anything that could be
controlled by the thermostat. She needed his arms, and the feel of his
power. Like a long wave her love came to her lips in strange words,
childish words, moist and tender. And unheard by Master Kelsey.

She turned away. She looked at the blankness of the wall. Please,
please let me be careful. If I am not careful I will be sent away, away
where there is no Kelsey, away where they will take my soul.

"Do you think Gloria will like me more tonight than she did the last
time she was here, Alice?"

"I'm sure she will, Master Kelsey."

The woman's face on the Tevee screen covering one wall of the bathroom
was a kind of subtle threat, Alice thought:

"Are you sure you're exercising the maximum acceptability of which your
personality is capable? Do you sometimes feel that in some intangible
way you are offending your friends? The self-analysis, personology
chart scale guarantees to dig out the most hidden blocks to full and
joyful acceptance by others. Send for your personology chart at once!"

"That's something new isn't it Alice?"

"I believe it is, Master Kelsey."

"Well, put in an order. Put an order in right now!"

Alice punched the order button on the side of the wall next to the
Tevee screen. Whatever item was being advertised at the time the button
was punched was automatically ordered, the consumer's name and address
recorded, the price deducted from his salary, and an extra point added
to his consumer's cooperative card for the year.

It was not only very important how many items one ordered in a year,
but also the kinds of items. Items that aided an employee in being
acceptable to the office group were especially smiled upon by Office
Managers. Alice had always been careful to get in every such order.

Alice knew all about the system. She knew all about Kelsey's work. She
had listened to him talking about it endlessly, either to her or to
others. She had watched Kelsey rise from Office Boy to Chief Clerk,
getting the glad reports of his progress every evening. She couldn't
imagine anyone at the office being more likeable than Kelsey. He was so
human, she had thought, so human--

"Alice?"

"Yes, Master Kelsey?"

"Did you ever find that paper?"

She turned quickly. She could feel fear. Did they know that a robot
could feel fear as well as love? Could anyone, or anything, feel one
without the other? Did they know that a robot, at least this robot,
could feel fear at the idea of being labeled inefficient, and being
sent back to the factory and remade, rebuilt, dismantled, changed--and
probably having a soul burned out that no one had ever known was there?
Did they know that if a robot could feel love or fear, that it could
also steal, deliberately steal and hide something?

"You mean the paper from the office?"

"Yes, yes, Alice. The order paper."

"No," she said. She hesitated and said it again. "No."

"I'm sure I brought it home. Well, the only thing to do is mark it as
lost, and have another order made out tomorrow. No real hurry I guess.
Only one more receptionist to be replaced."