In her mind, the imaginary Kelsey hesitated, then said, "What Quik-Pik
book are you reading right now?"

"Which one are _you_ reading, honey?" she evaded.

You never read anything everyone else wasn't reading; she knew that
much.

"Well, I like MY DAY AT THE OFFICE. It shows how a woman gets through
a day with her fellow workers in her office, how she smiles and is
pleasant and well-liked and never loses her temper. It shows all the
little tricks you can pull that help you sell yourself."

"That sounds like a wonderful book, honey. I'll get it at once!"

It sounded right. But there was something wrong. It was the right thing
to talk about, but it wasn't what she would prefer to talk about if she
were alone with Kelsey. Feeling the way she felt, she didn't think she
would want to talk much at all if she were alone with Kelsey.

But she knew that was a real social taboo--not saying anything at all.

Anyway, she gave herself a Gold Star for being so sociable with the
imaginary Kelsey. She was sure, very sure, she could sell herself to
Kelsey.

Only she would have to have another name. Two names. Human names.
Something that sounded beautiful.

Anita. Anita Starre.

She would knock on Master Kelsey's door and ask him for someone's
address. He was so nice and considerate he would surely ask her in for
a drink, or just ask her in, while he gave her directions.

Dry leaves crackled under her as she walked the half-block toward
Kelsey's house. The night was black with a few cold stars in the
endless vault of sky. It was late, but in almost all the houses you
could see the gentle glow of Tevee color through the windows.

There was no sound at all where the houses of the project, all looking
exactly the same, dwindled away into darkness like lines of dots made
by a typewriter.

It was, she thought, as though everyone and everything in the world
were waiting, waiting for the great white hot scream to explode in
the night, the great awakening, the blinding hot flash of awakening
that comes before the end. But Alice didn't feel afraid at all of an
air-raid as she walked up onto Master Kelsey's porch and rang the bell.
There had been so many false alarms, she wondered sometimes if there
was any real threat at all. The war--a vague thing far away, never
here, always somewhere else, but always supposed to be getting nearer.
The war with the Asians--it just went on and on, you heard about it,
and saw it on Tevee if you weren't afraid to look at the newscasts, but
it never seemed to happen here.

His footsteps behind the door. The door opening. His shadow there, the
pink lounge suit, the wavy hair with streaks of brown in the Viking
yellow, the face sleepy from Tevee coming awake as he saw the beautiful
woman standing there smiling. He smiled. Their smiles met.

"Hello," she said. "I'm Anita Starre. I'm looking for 16-03074 Carnegie
Way."

"You're lost?"

"I seem to be lost, yes."

The great hope dawned in her as he smiled at her in a way no robot had
ever been smiled at. A tender calm moved over her. The machinery that
made her go, the sparks that made her live, all seemed to jump and
tremble under the beautiful shell that had been created by the hands of
Julian.

The great joy filled her, surged inside her. She could be near, so near
him, now that she had the right look and the right smile. She could
tell him and show him how she loved to be near him--No, she would not
have to tell him that; he would know. Real love you just knew about.
You didn't have to say it. She would just kiss him and kiss him and
never have to tell him--

"This is Carnegie Way," Kelsey was saying. His eyes were fixed on her
face, then his eyes were brightening as they looked at her height and
her slim rich curves. "But it's five blocks from the address you're
looking for." He pointed to the left and told her how to get to
16-03074. His eyes continued to explore her figure with just the right
degree of polite interest.

She stepped closer until she was almost inside the hallway. She could
feel the warmth of him. "Why," she said suddenly, "you're Mr. Kelsey!"

His smile broadened with some hungry concept of himself that had been
fed. "But how did you know, Miss Starre?"

"A girl friend of mine, Miss Davies, works in your office."

"Oh, Miss Davies! She got a Silver Star--"

"Yes, she admires you so much. She has a picture of you, Mr. Kelsey.
She told me how you won a Golden Star for being so cooperative."

"We all help one another. Miss Davies is such a wonderfully warm and
sympathetic girl. Well, Miss Starre, what a coincidence!"

"Isn't it?"

"Well--maybe you could come in and rest a few minutes. We're watching
Tevee."

She nodded quickly. She felt that magnetic force, the clicking
communion, the way she had always seen it on Tevee. How easy it was,
after all, if you looked right and smiled right and said the correct
things.

"Oh, I'd love to!"