Miss Gloria Tonnencourt stood up, and the three of them seemed subdued
and softened in the Tevee light. Kelsey said, "Gloria, this is a friend
of mine, a really dear friend, Anita Starre."

There was something wrong. It was under the surface, Alice thought,
but it was there. Under the smiles, something tense and wrong and
dangerous. She had never felt it before, but she felt it now. It was
Gloria, the way the smile seemed set on Gloria's face as she said she
was very pleased to meet Miss Starre. It had always been there, that
smile, so it couldn't go away, but Alice knew that if she were Miss
Tonnencourt she would not feel like smiling. No one could smile, she
thought, if they were losing their love. Real love you could die of
losing.

They all smiled at one another. Kelsey got three drinks and they drank
to one another's happiness as though there was no question that there
could be anything else in the world but happiness.

Gloria has to do what's right, Alice thought. No matter how painful,
she has to do what's right. I'm lucky because she has to do what's
right, because she always has to be a good sport about everything.

They chatted together like good sports for a while, talked about the
pop tune of the week, the favorite sports hero of the day, the best
Quik-Pik book of the hour, the Sky-Splitter, the Roaromatic Roadeater,
the Silver and Golden Stars for cooperation, the Blue Stars for
communal feeling. The Carnegie Awards for sociability.

They have to get along, Alice thought gladly. They have to get along.
They can't afford to offend one another.

Gloria finally got up, seeming tired in spite of her smile, and said,
"I'd better be going now. I--I can see that you two have a real thing
for one another already. I--I think it's just--wonderful--so wonderful,
really--"

Kelsey didn't seem to hear Gloria at all, hardly seemed to know she was
there. He kept looking at Alice. "Please don't go, Gloria," he said as
he kept on looking at Alice.

"It's awfully sweet of you to ask me to stay, but I really must go now.
It's--it's getting late."

I know how you really feel, Alice thought. I know, I know, somewhere
deep inside you feel an awful sickness like death, but on the outside
you smile. I know how you feel.

But do you know how you feel anymore, Gloria? Can you feel the way you
really feel? What would happen if--

But no matter how Gloria felt, no Mirror on a wall could have been
critical of her appearance, her poise, her polite good-sport way of
bowing out.

Gloria moved toward the door. Kelsey hurried over there and opened it
for her. "You two be happy," Gloria whispered. "You two seem to be
so--so very right for an anther."

The door shut. It was as though Gloria Tonnencourt had never been there.

How could it be so easy? Alice's hand trembled as Kelsey moved toward
her. With Gloria it had been so quick, happening so fast, over so
easily.

"Regular girl," Kelsey was saying. "What wonderful warmth and
understanding."

"She's sweet," Alice heard herself saying. But that wasn't true.
She only felt that Gloria had been sad. If it had been sweet it was
bitter-sweet sadness. But Alice had to forget about Gloria. Gloria was
gone. It was like she had never been here at all, as though all those
evenings of love had never been. Switch it on, switch it off. It was
like Tevee, she thought, like Tevee--

Kelsey asked her to sit down on the couch, and then he was sitting near
her, nearer to her. Then he was touching her, his face inches from hers.

"It seems I've known you for years and years," he said.

And then she was forgetting everything else but Kelsey. It was easy,
so easy when you looked and felt right. So easy and she didn't want to
think about anything else but Kelsey, dear, sweet, darling Kelsey.

She received him in her arms, with a wild desire, a wild hunger to
cover his face with kisses. She felt the intensity taking hold of her,
gripping her body, quickening the pounding throb of machinery that was
hidden now, hidden away deep and silent and beating now like a human
heart.

She kissed his cheek. Her lips strayed over his skin. Her lips glided
over his face, felt the moist trembling of his lips.

She felt his trembling, his shuddering sigh, the way his arms convulsed
and gripped her, and then she saw the unsettled look, the light in his
eyes as he clung to her and at the same time seemed to push her away.

He was frightened. He was trembling, and he was afraid, and his face
was flushed.

"What's the matter, darling?" she whispered.