He stared at her. His lips were trembling. "I--I don't know. What is
it? It was never like this."

"What was never like this?"

"Love--I mean--you--what is it?"

"Real. It's real, darling Kelsey. That's the difference, isn't it?"

"Real?" His face had an uncomprehending look, the cheek muscles
trembling as he spoke, his voice hollow and frightened. "Something," he
whispered. "What is it? I've never felt anything like it. It--it's too
much, maybe. Too much or something--I don't know--"

His face was white. He was sliding away from her.

Already I am losing him, she thought. He's going away. Somehow he
senses what is wrong, without knowing what it is he knows. In spite of
the beautiful surface, he senses that I am not real, not human, not a
being at all.

"No, please," she whispered.

She moved desperately and clutched at him and held him tightly, shocked
at his stiffness now, his reluctance, his trembling. She felt tears
inside, though they could never show. "Please, please," she whispered.

His voice was shaking. "Listen--it's too much. You scare me. Wait a
minute now, let's talk about this. I want to know--"

"How can you be scared of love?"

"Love? This isn't love. It's--it's like anger. It's--I've never known
anything like this!"

"Let yourself know. Please."

He closed his eyes. His lips trembled. "I--I felt like I was going to
die," he whispered.

Suddenly he turned and stared at the Tevee.

He knows, she thought dully. He knows I'm what I am underneath. But he
doesn't know that he knows. He can't admit what seems impossible.

He gasped. His body jerked. She looked at the Tevee frame. There was
nothing on it suddenly but a frightening, wavering, milky emptiness.

And a voice; a voice without a face.

"Due to the possibility of an immediate air-raid, Tevee is dead.
All transportation is stopped. Those of you who were thoughtful
and cooperative enough with your sponsor to order our emergency
entertainment projectors will now turn them on. It will greatly
decrease anxiety. Red-out regulations will be in effect for two hours."

Kelsey's face was gray. "Air-raid," he whispered. "It's here. It's
really here!"

"It's all right, darling." She touched his arm. "It's all right--"

The light went out.

Somewhere Alice heard screaming. It seemed to fill the walls, the
floor, the ceiling and the night itself, everywhere, as though the very
air was screaming in some vast agony. The sirens.

She heard a whimpering sound and realized that it was Kelsey. She held
him tightly in her arms. He was shivering.

The Tevee screen seemed like a page on which vital print had died,
something strangely alive but without sound or meaning, like an
exposed brain without thought, like the deadness of an open eye in a
corpse.

"All lights will be extinguished for two hours," the voice said.
"Everyone will go immediately to their air-raid shelters!"

"Two hours," Kelsey whispered.

"I'm here," she said. "We're together, darling. There's nothing--"

He didn't seem to hear her. He leaped out of her arms, and she heard
furniture crashing as he blundered around wildly in the dark.

"The shelter," he yelled hoarsely. "The shelter!"

She followed him unerringly in the dark, to the stairs, without
stumbling. When she found him at the bottom of the stairs in the
tunnel leading to the private air-raid shelter, he was whimpering and
shivering violently.

"Two hours--two hours--two hours--" he whispered, over and over.

She could tell by the way he said it that it meant something else
to him, not two hours, but something infinitely longer, unendurably
longer, some kind of awful forever.

She helped him into the shelter and closed the thick door. She couldn't
understand that kind of loneliness. She had stood in the black lonely
closet for years. She had worked alone. She could understand the
loneliness of being without love. But this fear of his--it had no
meaning for her.

And as she looked at Kelsey cowering in the corner of the shelter, she
realized something else--Kelsey himself had very little meaning. He was
not what he had seemed. He was empty. He was hollow. He wasn't quite
real. That was what his fear was; a fear of discovering he had nothing
inside; a horror of the absence of something you could create inside
yourself only by being alone.

Alice knew that now. Maybe she had always known it, but now she
admitted it to herself.

The shelter was a small square room lined with concrete and lead and
steel. There was a large supply of food, and a method of reprocessing
the air. A person could live in it for a long time. Alice knew she
could. She would have loved being there just with Kelsey, but Kelsey
was empty, and there was no way he could give her back her love,
nothing in him he could use to share loneliness with her.

"Two hours--"

"But I love you," she said weakly. "We have one another. We can talk.
We can tell one another all about--"

"No Tevee," Kelsey whispered. "We can't get out! No one can get in! Two
hours!"

The screaming was in the shelter walls. It quivered in the floor
and ceiling and walls. But there was really no sound. Nothing could
penetrate here; no sound or light. Kelsey looked around the small
enclosure. "It may be longer--"

"It's only a warning," Alice said. "There may not be a real air-raid at
all."

"Talk!" he suddenly screamed at her. "Let's talk! Talk to me--"

But the superficial things slipped away and she couldn't remember
any of them. She wanted to take him in her arms, but she couldn't do
that now because it wasn't real. She couldn't talk about all those
meaningless things. Maybe now nothing would be enough to satisfy
Kelsey's hollow fear.