A year has elapsed since Gilbert Lisle stood on his trial at the black
gate. He has now quite settled down in the _rôle_ of a married man, and
spends most of his time between Berkshire and Ballyredmond. However,
his wings have not been _too_ closely clipped, for people who bore a
striking resemblance to him and his wife were met in Tangiers last
winter; and they are meditating a trip to the East, and paying a flying
visit to Dido (Dido who is now residing on the plains of Hindostan and
learning the practical use of punkahs and mosquito nets).

Thanks to Helen's good offices, the course of Miss Sheridan's true
love ran smoothly after all, and she was married with considerable
_éclat_ from the Lisles' house in London. Between that mansion and 15,
Upper Cream Street—there is a cloud. Helen and her relatives exchange
dignified salutes when they meet in public, but there their intimacy
ceases. Mr. Lisle has forbidden his wife to cross her aunt's threshold
(an embargo that is by no means irksome to that young lady), and the
Misses Platt tell all their acquaintance what an odious, ungrateful
creature she is, and how once upon a time they took her in, and kept
her out of charity. And _this_ is their reward!

Nevertheless, the Honourable Mrs. Gilbert Lisle does not forget old
friends. She is not ashamed to see the Smithson Villa vehicle standing
before her door; and she has more than once visited at Malvern House,
and entertained Mrs. Kane, and some of her former pupils. Lord
Lingard has been altogether captivated by his daughter-in-law. She
is everything his heart desires; young, pretty, and pleasant. He has
invested her with the family diamonds!

Barry and Katie reign at Crowmore. The place is much altered, for the
better; the old lodges have been swept away, the wall is gone, the
gates restored; the garden is pruned, the yard is reclaimed, and the
out-offices are roofed, and filled. Katie is happy in her own way.
She rather enjoys being bullied by Barry, is lenient to his little
foibles, and she listens to his vainglorious personal reminiscences
with deep interest, and implicit faith. On one point alone she is
somewhat sceptical, viz., that Barry could have married her cousin,
had he chosen;—her pretty cousin Helen, who occasionally drives over
from Ballyredmond in a smart Stanhope phaeton, and seems perfectly
satisfied with her own husband, and who snubs Barry, as mercilessly as
ever!

Mr. Sheridan, poor gentleman, has now but few lucid intervals. He is
at present engaged in an absorbing search for the elixir of life, and
lives in his tower along with a companion, whom he treats with the most
reverent respect and calls "Archimedes," but to the outer world he is
known as James Karney—a keeper from a lunatic asylum.

Biddy, thanks to Helen's good offices, has relented at last, and
permitted her niece Sally to bestow her capable hand upon "that little
sleveen, Larry Flood." The market-cart has consequently been abolished,
and the Master's occupation (like Othello's), is gone. He is now a
pensioner at Ballyredmond, where, to quote his late charioteer, Mrs.
Flood, "he never does a hand's turn, barrin' thievin' in the haggard,
and chasing the cows."

The "Fancy" continues to flourish, to levy tribute, and to make a
comfortable income out of her holding at the Cross. And, according to
the last accounts from America, Darby Chute reported himself to be
doing _well_.