XXIV.

"FAREWELL, PORT BLAIR."

  "Farewell at once—for once, for all—and ever."

  _Richard II._


MRS. DURAND'S surmises were correct.

A few days after James Quentin's return, without any marked haste he
went over and called on Mrs. Home and Miss Denis. The former was an
arrant little match-maker, and was delighted to see that _débonnaire_
face once more. He was handsome, rich (?), and agreeable, he had been
devoted to her young friend previous to his departure for the Nicobars,
and, _of course_, it would be all settled now. With this idea in her
head, she presently effaced herself so as to give the gentleman ample
opportunity for a _tête-à-tête_. She even kept Tom and Billy out of the
way, and this was no mean feat.

Mr. Quentin murmured some polite stereotyped regrets, then he alluded
in rather strong language to "that vile hole Camorta." As he talked
he stared, stared hard at Helen, and wondered at the change he saw
in her appearance. She was haggard and thin; of her lovely colour
not a vestige remained, and the outlines of her face were sharp, and
had lost their pretty contour. She looked like a flower that had
been beaten down by the storm. Never in all his experience had he
beheld such a complete and sudden alteration in any one; he was glad
he had never thought of her seriously, and as to Lisle, he was well
out of it (thanks to his friend James Quentin); _he_ took everything
so seriously he would have been sure to have got the halter over his
head, and to have blundered into an imprudent match. His yes meant
yes; his no, no. Now he himself had a lightness of method, a nebulous
vagueness surrounded his most tender speeches; at a moment's notice,
he could slip off his chains, and run his head out of the noose, and
always without any outward unpleasantness—that was the best of the
affair. Gilbert Lisle was different, he was not used to playing with
such brittle toys as girls' hearts. Well, this girl had entirely lost
her beauty, so thought her visitor, as he contemplated her critically
and conversed of malaria and Malays. She had not a penny, and no
connections; he supposed, when she went back to England, she would
go out as a governess, or a companion, or music-teacher. He entirely
approved of young women being independent and earning their own bread.
If there was a subscription got up for her passage money, he meant to
do the handsome thing, and give fifty rupees (5_l._).

"I suppose you were surprised to hear about Lisle?" he said at last.

"Yes," looking at her questioner with complete composure.

"He left me at Camorta, you know. He is a queer, eccentric beggar, and
you would never suppose, to see him in his old fishing-kit, and with
his hands as brown and horny as a common boatman's, that he had been in
the Coldstreams, and was a regular London swell."

Helen made no reply, and he continued glibly,—

"He is considered a tremendous catch; they say his elder brother is
dying at Algiers—consumption—but he is not easy to please!"

"Is he not?" she echoed with studied indifference.

"No.—By Jove! Mrs. Creery did not think much of him; she was awfully
rough on him. How all you people did snub him! Many a good laugh I had
in my sleeve!" and he smiled at the recollection.

"I do not think that many people snubbed him," returned Helen with a
flushed cheek and flashing eye.

"Well, perhaps _you_ did not," returned Mr. Quentin, somewhat abashed.
"You know, you never snubbed any one but me," with a mental note that
she should live to be sorry for that same. "Lisle made me promise to
keep his secret. He wished to be accepted for himself for once, without
any _arrière pensée_ of money or title; and by George, he got what he
wanted with a vengeance—eh? I don't think he will try it again in a
hurry. He found his level,—the very bottom of the ladder, something
quite new!" and again he laughed heartily at the recollection.

"I suppose it was," with elaborate indifference.

"He had been having a big shoot in the Terai before he came here. He
was awfully taken with this place, the queer, unconventional life, and
stayed on and on greatly to my surprise. Many a time I wondered what he
saw in the place, though, of course, I was delighted to have him. My
luck was dead in." (So it was, _vide_ Ibrahim's domestic accounts!)

"Yes, of course it was pleasant for _you_," admitted Helen.

"He should have been a poor man; he had so much energy and resource,
and such Spartan tastes. Ten times a day I wished that we could change
places."

"I daresay," returned the young lady rather drily.

There was something—was it a tone of lurking scorn?—in this "I
daresay!" that irritated her listener, who instantly resolved to
administer a rap on the knuckles in return.

"His father is wild with him for roving about the world; he wants him
to marry and settle."

"Yes?"

"I believe he has an heiress in cotton-wool for him at home. I wish my
governor was as thoughtful!"

"No doubt he knows that _you_ are quite equal to finding such a
treasure for yourself," returned Miss Denis, with a very perceptible
touch of sarcasm.

Mr. Quentin laughed rather boisterously. It was new to him to hear
sharp speeches from ladies' lips, and now, looking at his watch and
rising with a sudden start, he said,—

"I declare I must be going. I had no idea it was so late. I've an
appointment (imaginary) at four o'clock, and I've only two minutes.
Well," now taking her hand, "and so you are off on Wednesday? I may
see you before that, if not, good-bye," holding her fingers with a
lingering pressure, and looking down into her eyes as if he felt
unutterable regret, quite beyond the reach of words; but in truth he
was conscious of nothing, beyond a keen desire to make a happy exit,
and to get away respectably (perhaps he had also a lurking craving for
a "peg"!). "Good-bye, I hope we shall meet again some day in England.
Perhaps you would drop me a line?" a query he had often found to have
an excellent and soothing effect at similar partings.

Helen took no notice of the suggestion, but merely bowed her head and
said very quietly,—

"Good-bye, Mr. Quentin, good-bye."

And then the gentleman took himself away in exaggerated haste,
muttering as he hurried down to the pier,—

"How white she looked, and how stiff she was. I'm hanged if I don't
believe she had a weakness for Lisle, after all. If _that's_ the case,
this humble, insignificant individual has put a pretty big spoke in her
wheel."