XII.

THE WRECK.

  "The direful spectacle of the wreck."

  _Tempest_


IT may be among the facts not generally known, that the Andaman seas
and shores are wealthy in shells; and people who grumble at being
despatched to do duty at the settlement are usually consoled by their
friends (who are not accompanying them), saying, "Oh, it's a charming
place! if you have a taste for conchology, you will have any quantity
of shelling."

In most cases, the shelling is angrily repudiated, and yet the chances
are, that once arrived upon the scene of action, and stimulated by
general example and keen emulation, the new-comers will develop into
the most unwearying, rabid, and greedy of shellers!

When I say a greedy sheller, I refer to an individual who, when tide,
wind and moon favour, will secretly take boat, and steal away to the
most likely parts of Corvyn's Cove, or some favourite reef at Navy Bay,
and there reaping a rich and solitary harvest, return with bare-faced
triumph, and swagger, dripping up the pier, between two lines of
outraged acquaintances, with a shameless air of,—

"Ah, ha! see what _I_ have got!"

From the General, down to Billy Home, every one went shelling at Port
Blair, and some of these "shell maniacs" (as Mrs. Creery dubbed them)
had superb and valuable collections. There was as much excitement and
competition over a day's quest as would be expended on covert shooting
or salmon fishing at home. It was not merely a frivolous picking up
of pretty objects; it was a very serious business. The finder of the
rarest shells was the hero of the hour: the owner of "ring" cowries was
a person of repute!

Behold, then, one afternoon, a few days after the band, two large
rowing-boats waiting at the pier for shellers! and kindly notice the
party coming down to embark. An inexperienced eye would naturally
assume that they were all going to bathe, for each individual carries a
bag and a couple of bath towels—to put round the back of their heads
as they stoop in the sun. Their garments are whole, indeed, and quite
good enough for the occasion, but how faded, and shrunken, and cockled
with sea-water! Their boots—but no, we will draw a veil over these. To
be brief the appearance of the company is the reverse of distinguished.
In a few short happy hours they will return: they will be all soaking
in water from the waist downwards. (Luckily, wading about in the
nice, warm sea is rather pleasant after the first plunge, and people
in the excitement of shelling are insidiously drawn in deeper and
deeper still.) Yes, by six o'clock, if all goes well, we shall see
the company of shellers, returning like a party of half-drowned rats;
but there will be no shyness, no reluctance, in their progress up the
pier; without the least diffidence, they will run the gauntlet of
all the idlers, with an air of lofty pride, born of the noble spoils
they usually carry. Have they not in their bags such treasures as
"woodcocks," "staircases," "tigers," and "poached eggs"! We spare the
reader the Latin names of these rarities.