Colonel Denis' effects were sold off in the usual manner; his
furniture, boat, and guns, were disposed of, his servants dismissed,
and his papers examined. And what discoveries were not made in that
battered old despatch-box! Not of money owing, or startling unpaid
bills, but of large sums due to him; borrowed and forgotten by
impecunious acquaintances—one thousand rupees here, three thousand
rupees there, merely acknowledged by careless, long-forgotten I. O.
U.'s. Then there were receipts for money paid,—drained away yearly by
his father's and wife's creditors—his very pension was mortgaged. How
little he appeared to have spent upon himself. All his life long he had
been toiling hard for other people, who gaily squandered in a week,
what he had accumulated in a year; a thankless task! a leaden burden!

Apparently he had begun to save of late, presumably for Helen; but,
including the auction, all that could be placed to his daughter's
credit in the bank was only four hundred odd pounds!

"Say fifteen pounds a year," said Colonel Home, looking blankly at Mr.
Creery.

"I know he intended to insure his life, he told me so last week."

"Ah! if he only had. What is to become of the poor girl?" continued
Colonel Home; "fifteen pounds a year won't even keep her in clothes,
let alone in food and house-room. I believe he had very few relations
in England, and see how some of his friends out here have fleeced him!"

"They ought to be made pay up," returned Mr. Creery. "I'll see to
_that_," he added with stern, determined face.

"How can they pay up? The fellows who signed those," touching some I.
O. U.'s, "are dead. Here's another, for whom Denis backed a bill; he
went off to Australia years ago. I wonder Tom Denis had not a worse
opinion of his fellow-creatures."

"In many ways, Tom was a fool; his heart was too soft, his eyes were
always blind to his own interests: some people soon found that out."

"Well! what is to become of his daughter? That is what puzzles me,"
said his listener anxiously. "She is a good girl, and uncommonly
pretty!"

"Yes; her face is her fortune, and I hope it will stand to her,"
rejoined Mr. Creery, dubiously. "But, to set herself off, she should go
into fine society and wear fine clothes, and she has no means to start
her in company where she would meet a likely match. As they say in my
country, 'Ye canna whistle without an upper lip.'"

"She might not have _far_ to go for a husband," returned Colonel Home
significantly.

"Ah, well! I believe I _know_ what you mean, but that man will be
needing a fortune. He is too cannie to marry 'a penniless lass without
a lang pedigree!'"

"My wife has her fancies," said Colonel Home, "and thinks a good deal
of him."

"So does mine," returned the other, "and has _her_ fancies too; but all
the same—between you and me, Home—I never liked the fellow; you know
who I mean. He is just a gay popinjay, taking his turn out of everybody
that comes in his way."

(Observe, cannie Scotchman as he was, that all this time, he had never
mentioned any _name_.)