The chief officer brought his story to an end in the midst of a dead,
nay, an awe-struck silence. People shuddered and looked nervously
behind them. They were on board ship, too! Why should not the
_Palestine_ have a ghost of her own, as well as the _Black Swan_?

The utter stillness, was suddenly broken by a loud howl from Billy
Home, who had been listening with all the power of his unusually
capacious ears, and seemed to have but just wakened up from a sort of
trance of horror. He shrieked and clung to Helen, who had whispered a
hint with regard to bed-time.

"No, no, no," he would not come. "No, not alone," he added with a yell,
hanging to her with the tenacity of a limpet; "not unless you stay with
me.—I'm afraid of the man downstairs,—I _know_ he is downstairs."

"I declare," said the bearded story-teller, "I quite forgot that little
beggar was there. I never noticed him till now, or I would not have
told you that yarn."

Needless to remark, his apology came rather too late. At every turn
of the companion-ladder, at every open door, Billy lived in whining
anticipation of meeting what he called "the man in the boots," and for
the remainder of the voyage he was figuratively a mill-stone, round
Helen's neck.

They had an uneventful passage down the Mediterranean, halting at
Malta for lace, oranges, and canaries; they passed Cape Bon, then the
coast of Spain, and the snow-capped Sierra Nevada. The Home boys had
never beheld snow till now, and were easily induced to believe, that
what they beheld was pounded sugar, and languished at the mountains
with greedy eyes, as long as they remained in sight. On a certain
Sunday afternoon in April the _Palestine_ arrived in the Victoria
Docks, London. Numerous expectant friends came swarming on board, all
eagerness and expectation, but there was no one to welcome Helen,—no
face among that friendly crowd was seeking hers. Being a Sunday, there
was, of course, some difficulty about cabs and trains, and the docks
were very remote from the fashionable quarter where her aunt Julia
resided: so she swallowed her disappointment and made excuses to
herself. However, Mrs. Home, who had been met by her brother, insisted
upon personally conducting her to her journey's end. First they went
by rail above ground, then by rail under ground, finally by cab, and
after a long drive, the travellers drew up at Mrs. Platt's rather
pinched-looking mansion in Upper Cream Street. A man-servant answered
the bell, flung wide the door with a jerk, and stood upon the threshold
in dignified amazement on beholding _two_ cabs, heavily laden with
baggage.

Was Mrs. Platt at home?

"No, ma'am. She and the young ladies have gone to afternoon church; but
Miss Denis is _expected_."

Rather a tepid reception, Mrs. Home thought, with a secret thrill of
indignation. Much, much, she wished that she could have taken Helen
with her there and then. She hugged her vigorously, as did also Tom
and Billy; and telling her, that she would come and see her very soon,
she re-entered her cab, and with her brother, children, and luggage,
was presently rattled away. Helen felt as she stood on the steps, and
watched those familiar trunks, turning a corner,—that her last link
with the Andamans, and all her recent life, was now broken.