Visitors came rapping at No. 15, Cream Street every afternoon, and two,
out of the dozens who had called, asked for "Miss Denis." A few days
after her arrival, she had been in the drawing-room with her cousins
Carrie and Clara, when her first caller made her appearance.

The drawing-room was an apartment that seemed to be all mirrors, low
chairs, small tables, and plush photo frames—a pretty room, entirely
got up for show, not use. Several of the chairs, were not to be
trusted, and one or two tables were decidedly dangerous, but the _tout
ensemble_ through coloured blinds, was everything that was smart and
fashionable, and "good style"—the fetish the Miss Platts worshipped.

On this particular afternoon Carrie was yawning over the fire, Clara
was looking out of the window, commenting on a coroneted carriage and
superb pair of steppers, with what is called extravagant action, which
had just stopped opposite. Mentally she was thinking, how much she
would like to see this equipage in waiting at their own door, when a
very curious turn-out came lumbering along, and actually drew up at
No. 15. A shapeless, weather-beaten, yellow brougham, drawn by a fat
plough-horse, and driven by a coachman in keeping with his steed—a man
with a long beard, a rusty hat (that an Andamanese would have scorned),
and a horse-sheet round his knees.

Little did Helen Denis dream that she was gazing at that oft-vaunted
vehicle—Lady Grubb's carriage.

"Good gracious, Carrie, who on earth is this?" cried Clara, turning to
her sister, who was now staring exhaustingly at her own reflection in
the chimney-glass. "And coming to call here! Oh, for mercy's sake, do
come and look!"

The door of the brougham was slowly opened, and a very stout old lady,
attired in a long black satin cloak, and gorgeous bonnet with nodding
plumes, descended, and waddled up the steps.

In the vacant carriage there still remained two fat pugs, a worked
cushion, a pile of books, and what certainly looked like a basket of
vegetables!

"It's no one _we_ know," said Clara contemptuously.

"It may be a friend of Plunket's, or a mistake."

Apparently it was neither, for at this moment the door was flung open,
and,—

"Lady Grubb!" was announced.

Very eagerly she advanced to Clara, with round, smiling face, and
outstretched hands, saying,—

"So glad to find you at home! My sister told me to be sure and call,
and as I was at the stores,"—here she paused and faltered, literally
cowed by the expression of Miss Platt's eyes—Miss Platt, who drew
back, elongated her neck, and looked insolent interrogation.

"I think you have been so good as to come and see me," murmured Helen,
hastily advancing to the rescue. "You are Mrs. Creery's sister?"

"Yes, and of course you are Miss Denis," seizing her outstretched hand
as if it were a life-belt, for poor Lady Grubb was completely thrown
off her balance, by the stern demeanour of the other damsel.

Helen led her to a sofa, and tried to engage her in friendly
conversation, but it was not easy to converse, with her two cousins
sitting rigidly by, as if they were on a board of examination, and not
suffering a word or look to escape them. They sat and gazed at Lady
Grubb in quite a combined and systematic manner; to them she was such a
unique object, and such utterly "awful style."

She, like her sister, was endowed with a copious flow of language,
but the very fountain of her speech was frozen by these two ice
maidens. The first few words she did manage to utter, were hurried and
incoherent, but presently she found courage to inquire after Maria, and
Nip, and Creery (horrible to relate, she called him "Creery"), and also
after many people, she had heard about at Port Blair.

It was very plain to Helen, that Maria had painted her island home,
with an unsparing supply of gorgeous colours, and Lady Grubb looked
upon her absent relative's position, as something between that of
the Queen of Sheba, and the Princess Badoura without doubt. She then
murmured a few words of really kind condolence to Helen, and if she had
taken her departure at this point, all would have been well; but she
was now becoming habituated to the stony stare of the Misses Platt, and
felt more emboldened to converse,—and some malicious elf put it into
her head to say, with a meaning smile,—

"I am quite up in all the Port Blair news and Port Blair secrets, you
know. I've heard a great deal about a certain gentleman."

Helen became what is known as "all colours," and her two cousins "all
ears;" to them she had positively denied that she had left the ghost of
an admirer to lament her departure from the Andaman Islands.

"Oh, you know who I _mean_, I can see," continued the old lady
playfully. "She had any number of offers," addressing herself rather
triumphantly to the Miss Platts, "but Mr. Quentin is to be the happy
man," and here the wretched old woman, actually winked at Clara and
Caroline.

"Indeed, indeed, Lady Grubb, you are quite mistaken!" cried Helen
hastily. "Mr. Quentin is nothing to me but a mere acquaintance, and as
to anything else, Mrs. Creery—was—was joking!"

"Oh, well, well, we won't say a word about it now, but you must come
and spend a long day with me soon and tell me _everything_! I feel as
if I know you quite well, having heard of you so often from Maria. I'll
just leave my card for your aunt, and now I must really be going,"
standing up as she spoke. "I suppose Scully is waiting" (presumably the
uncouth coachman).

The Miss Platts did not ring the bell, neither did they deign to rise
from their chairs, but merely closed their eyes at their visitor, as
she made a kind of "shy," intended for a curtsey, and wishing them
"good afternoon," departed with considerable precipitation.

Helen went downstairs, and conducted Lady Grubb to the hall-door, and
presently saw her bowled away in her yellow chariot, with a brace of
pugs in her lap.

She was not a very distinguished person certainly, but she meant to be
friendly, to be kind, and a little of these commodities went a long way
with her now. She blushed, when she recalled her cousins' deportment.
Surely an Andamanese female, in her own premises (were they hole or
tree), would have shown more civility to a stranger. As she entered the
drawing-room, the Miss Platts exclaimed in one breath,—

"What a creature! Who is she?"

"She looks like an old cook!" supplemented Carrie. "I was _trembling_
lest any of our friends should come in."

"Her name is Grubb, she is sister to Mrs. Creery, the—" (how could she
give any approximate idea of that lady's pomp?) "the principal lady at
the Andamans!" she added rather faintly.

"Principal lady! What rubbish!" cried Clara. "If she resembles her
distinguished sister, I make you my compliments, as the French say, on
the class of society you enjoyed out there."

"Let us see where she lives. Where's her card? What is her
name?—Tubb—Grubb?" said Carrie. "Here it is," taking it up between
two supercilious fingers, and reading,—

      =Lady Grubb=,
              _Smithson Villas, Pimlico_.

"Pimlico! _So_ i should have imagined," for, of course, any one who
lived in that region was in the Miss Platts' opinion socially extinct.

"You certainly cannot do yourself the pleasure of spending a long and
happy day at Smithson Villas," said Carrie with decision. "Goodness
knows whom you might meet; and she would be bragging to her cronies
that you were _our_ cousin."

"I shall go if she asks me," replied Helen quietly. "It is no matter
who _I_ meet, and I will guarantee that your name does not transpire."

Was the girl trying to be sarcastic? Carrie looked at her sharply, but
Helen's face was immovable.

"Well, I do most devoutly trust that she will not see fit to wait upon
you again, or that if she does she will come in the laundry-cart!"

"I wonder what the Courtney-Howards thought of her. I'm sure I saw
Evelyn at the window," remarked Clara. "Oh!" she added with great
animation, "here is the Jenkins' carriage—Flo and her mother. What a
mercy that they did not come five minutes ago!"

Now ensued general arranging of hair, of chairs, and of blinds;
evidently the Jenkins were people worth cultivating, and indisputably
of "good style."

"Fly away, Helen, at once," cried Carrie, "and tell Price to bring up
tea in about ten minutes; and if there is time, you might just run
round the corner and get half-a-dozen of those nice little Scotch
cakes. I know Price hates being sent on messages in the afternoon, and
you don't mind."