Helen occasionally spent a day with Mrs. Graham or Mrs. Durand; they
liked to have her with them, and endeavoured by every means in their
power, to distract her mind from dwelling, as it did incessantly, on
her recent loss. One morning, as she sat working in Mrs. Durand's cool,
shady drawing-room, doing her best to seem interested in her hostess'
remarks, they heard some one coming rapidly up the walk, and Captain
Durand sprang up the steps, and entered, holding a bundle of letters in
his hand.

"The mail is in from Rangoon," he said; "Rangoon and the Nicobars."

If he and his wife had not been wholly engrossed in sorting their
correspondence, they would doubtless have noticed, that their young
lady guest had suddenly become very red, and then very white, but they
were examining their letters, with the gusto of people to whom such
things are both precious and rare.

"By the way," exclaimed Captain Durand, looking up at last, "Quentin is
back; I met him on the pier."

Helen almost held her breath, her heart stood still, whilst her hostess
put into words a question she could not have articulated to save her
life.

"And Gilbert Lisle, did you see him?"

"Oh, no! he has gone on to Japan," responded her husband, as he
carelessly tore open a note. "He is a regular bird of passage!"

"Ah, I _thought_ we should not see him again," rejoined Mrs. Durand,
with a tinge of regret in her voice.

Helen listened as if she were listening to something about a stranger,
she bent her eyes steadily on her work, and endeavoured to compose her
trembling lips. Mrs. Durand, happening to glance at her, as, opening
an envelope, she said, "Why, here's a note from him!" was struck
by the strange, dead pallor of her face, and by the look of almost
desperate expectation in her eyes—eyes now raised, and bent greedily
on the letter in her own hand. This change of colour, this eager
look, was a complete revelation to that lady, who paused, drew in her
breath, and asked herself, with a thrill of apprehension, "Could it be
possible that Helen had lost her heart to Gilbert Lisle? Was _she_ the
attraction that had held him so fast at Port Blair?"

As she stared in a dazed, stupid sort of way, her young friend dropped
her eyes, bent her head, and resumed her work with feverish industry;
but, in truth, her shaking fingers were pricking themselves with the
needle, instead of putting in a single stitch!

"A note from Lisle? And pray what has he to say?" inquired Captain
Durand, ignorant of this by-play. "Here," holding out his hand, "give
it to me, and I'll read it."

  "Camorta, March 2nd.

 "DEAR MRS. DURAND,—As I have changed my plans, and am not returning
 to Port Blair, I send you a line to bid you good-bye, and to beg you
 to be good enough to accept my small sailing-boat which lies over at
 Aberdeen. You will find her much more handy for getting about in, than
 the detachment gig. My nets and fishing-gear I bequeath to Durand. I
 am going on to Japan, _viâ_ rangoon and Singapore, and shall make my
 way home by San Francisco. Hoping that we shall meet in England ere
 long, and with kind regards to all friends at Ross,

  "I remain,
  "Yours sincerely,
  "GILBERT LISLE."

"By Jove!" exclaimed Captain Durand, "that smart cutter of his is the
very thing for you, Em, and the fishing-tackle will suit me down to the
ground. I like Lisle uncommonly, but," grinning significantly as he
spoke, "this note of his, consoles me wonderfully for his departure."

Yes, so it might—but who was to console Helen? She felt like some
drowning wretch, from whom their only plank has just been torn, or as
a shipwrecked sailor, who had painfully clambered out of reach of the
waves and been once more cruelly tossed back among them.

It was only now at this moment of piercing anguish that she thoroughly
realized how much she had been clinging to Gilbert Lisle's promise, how
steadfastly she had believed in his words, "I shall come back."

With a feeling of utter desolation in her heart, with her ideal and
her hopes alike shattered, what a task was hers to maintain an outward
appearance of indifference and composure!

After a time Captain Durand went off to the mess, to hear the news,
and to look over the papers, leaving the two ladies _tête-à-tête_; his
wife affected to peruse her letters, reading such little scraps of them
aloud from time to time as she thought might amuse her companion, but
she was not enjoying them as usual. That look she had surprised in the
girl's eyes, haunted her painfully. She longed to go over to her, and
put her arm round her neck and whisper in her ear,—

"What is it? Tell me all about it, confide in _me_."

But somehow she dared not, bold as she was.—Recent grief had aged
Helen, and given her a gravity far beyond her years, and as she looked
across at that marble face, those downcast eyes, and busy fingers, she
found her kind, warm heart fail her. Whatever the hurt was, ay, were it
mortal, that girl meant to bear it alone.

She was more affectionate and sympathetic to her young friend than
usual, smoothed her hot forehead, kissed her, caressed her, and whilst
they sat together in the twilight in the verandah, looking out on the
dusky sky, found courage to murmur,—

"Dearest Helen, remember that I am your friend, not merely in name
only. Should you ever have any—any little trouble such as girls have
sometimes, you will come and share it with me, won't you? I am older,
more experienced by years and years, and I will always keep your
secrets, exactly as if they were my own!"

This was undoubtedly a strong hint; nevertheless, her listener merely
smiled and nodded her head, but made no other sign. "_Little_ trouble!"
She was on the rack all day long. She bore the torture of her hostess's
soft whispers and tender, sympathetic looks, which told her that she
guessed _all_. She bore the brightly-lit dinner-table, and Captain
Durand's cheerful recounting of the most thrilling news. She even
endured his eloquent praises of Gilbert Lisle without flinching. Little
did her gallant host guess the effort that those smiles and answers
cost her. Good, commonplace man! he had got over his brief love affair
fifteen years previously, and had forgotten it as completely as a tale
that is told. Mrs. Durand had a more vivid recollection of her own
experiences,—and a share of that fellow-feeling that makes us all
akin. She was amazed at Helen's fortitude, especially when she glanced
back over the past and remembered (and I hope this will not be put down
to her discredit) that when _she_ had seen the announcement of the
marriage of her first fancy in the paper, she had spent the remainder
of the day in hysterics and the subsequent week in tears. She walked
back with Helen, and left her herself at Colonel Home's door, and bade
her good-night with unusual tenderness. Then she retraced her steps,
arm-in-arm with her husband, whose mind was abruptly recalled from
planning a long day's sea-fishing, by her saying rather suddenly,—

"I know _now_ why Helen refused Dr. Parkes!"

"Oh!" contemptuously, "I could have told you the reason long ago, if
you had asked me. Because he was the same age as her father!"

"No, you dear, stupid man—but this is quite private. I am sure,"
lowering her voice, "that she likes Gilbert Lisle."

A long whistle was the only reply to his information for some seconds,
and then he said,—

"Now what has put _that_ into your head?"

"Her face when you came in and told us that he was not coming back. I
cannot get it out of my mind, it was only a momentary expression, she
rallied again at once; but that moment told me a tale that she has
hitherto guarded as a secret."

"You are as full of fancies and ridiculous, romantic ideas as if you
were seventeen instead of——"

"Don't name it!" she interrupted hastily, "the very leaves here have
ears!"

Her husband laughed explosively, and presently said,—

"I never knew such a woman as you are for jumping at conclusions. She
had a twinge of face-ache, that was all."

"A twinge of heart-ache, you mean. But what is the use of talking to
_you_?—you are as matter-of-fact as a Monday morning. And now, pray
tell me, though I suppose I might just as well ask Billy Home, did
Gilbert Lisle ever show her any attention?"

"Ha—hum—well, do you think that saving her life could be called an
attention?"

"Yes," eagerly; "yes, of course! I'd forgotten about that!"

"And another time he picked her off the mainland and brought her home
in what is now your boat, through a series of white squalls."

"Did he really?" the really, as it were, in large capitals.

"And he was there a few times. But you need not get any ideas into your
head about _him_, it was always Quentin, he was always hanging about
her in that heavy persistent way of his—it was Quentin, I tell you!"

"And _I_ tell you," responded his wife emphatically, "that it was, and
is, Gilbert Lisle. I recollect his saying, the night of the ball, what
a nice girl she was; or _I_ said it, and he agreed, which is the same
thing. And I remember perfectly, now that I think of it, noticing them
leaning over a gate, and looking just like a pair of lovers."

A loud and rudely incredulous haw-haw from Captain Durand was his only
reply.

"You may laugh as much as you like, but Mr. Lisle told me that he would
gladly give a thousand pounds to get out of the Nicobars trip, and the
last thing he said to me, as he bade me good-bye, was, 'I shall see
you again soon.' I remember all these things now, and put two and two
together, but I cannot make it out—I am utterly puzzled. Perhaps Mr.
Quentin will be able to throw some light on the subject!"

"Quentin wants to marry her himself."

"Not he! He only wished to be a dog in the manger, to engross the only
pretty girl in the place, that was all. I know him _well_. And now that
she has been left an orphan, without a fraction, he has as much idea of
making her Mrs. Quentin, as he has of flying over the moon!"

"All right, Em, time will tell.—I bet you a new bonnet that this time
next year, she will be Mrs. Q."

"No more than she will be Queen of England," returned his wife with
emphasis. This was positively the last word, and Mrs. Durand's
property, for they had now reached the steps of their own bungalow, and
consequently the end of their journey.