XXVII.

IN WHICH EVERYTHING IS SETTLED TO MRS. PLATT'S SATISFACTION.

  "When true hearts lie withered,
    And fond ones are flown,
  Oh! who would inhabit
    This bleak world alone?"

  _Moore._


LADY GRUBB'S visit was succeeded by one from Mrs. Home—a kind,
well-meaning little lady, as we know, but as yet attired in what had
been a very nice Dirzee-made garment at Port Blair, and even passed
muster for best on board ship, but which stamped her at once in the
eyes of the Miss Platts as "bad style."

Her boys, too, so eager was she to see Helen, were not yet equipped in
their new suits, and were anomalous spectacles in Highland kilts and
sailor hats.

Clara and Carrie did not condescend to appear on this occasion, they
saw amply sufficient of Mrs. Home and family over the dining-room blind.

Helen felt a sense of burning humiliation and shame to think that now,
when she was at home among her own people, they would not even take the
trouble to come upstairs and thank Mrs. Home for her great kindness to
her, nor even so much as send her a cup of tea. She hoped in her heart
that her friend would think they were _out_! But they went audibly up
and down stairs and laughed and shut doors, and Mrs. Home was neither
deaf nor stupid.

She stayed an hour, and Helen enjoyed her visit greatly (despite her
disappointment at the non-appearance of her relations or, failing them,
the tea-tray). It was one little oasis in the desert of her now dreary
life; they conversed eagerly together and talked the shibboleth of
people who have the same friends, in the same country; they kissed and
cried a little, and parted with mutual promises of many letters, for
Mrs. Home was going to Jersey, and thence to the Continent.

"Your friends are not our friends, and our friends are not your
friends," said Carrie forcibly, and Helen felt that indeed, as far as
appearance went, her visitors had not been a success, and for her own
part never dreamt of being admitted within the sacred circle of her
cousins' acquaintance.

Now and then she met people accidentally in the hall, or in the street
when walking with her cousins; and once she overheard Carrie saying to
Clara, apropos of visitors,—

"Of course there is no occasion to introduce Helen to any one," and
this amiable injunction was obeyed to the letter. However, the omission
sat very lightly on the once admired of all admirers at Port Blair.

One morning it happened that Helen was in the drawing-room when a bosom
friend of Carrie's came to call—a Miss Fowler Sharpe, a fashionable
acquaintance whom the Misses Platt toadied, for she had the _entrée_ to
circles barred to them, and they hoped to use her as a pass key.

They made a great deal of the lady, flattered her, caressed her, and
ran after her, all of which was agreeable to Miss Sharpe. She was a
very elegantly dressed London girl, who spoke with a drawl, and gave
one the idea that her eyelids were too heavy for her eyes. She had come
over to Cream Street to make some arrangements about an opera-box, and
to have a little genteel gossip.

Helen was busily engaged in sewing Madras muslin and coloured bows
on the backs of some of the chairs, where she was "discovered" by
her cousins and their friend, to whom she was presented in a hasty,
off-hand manner, which plainly said, "You need not notice her!"

Miss Sharpe stared for a second, vouchsafed her a little nod, then sat
down with her back to Helen and speedily forgot her existence.

The three friends were soon deep in conversation, whilst she worked
steadily on, kneeling at the chair she was dressing with her face
turned away from the company.

Their principal topics were dress and weddings, weddings and dress, and
who was flirting with whom, and what was likely to be a match, and what
was not, and who looked lovely in such a gown, and what men were in
town.

At length Helen, who had not been attending, caught one syllable that
made her start and pause, and then listen with a heightened colour and
a beating heart.

"Yes, I hear that Gilbert Lisle is actually coming back; he has been
away among savages this last time, positively fraternizing with
cannibals."

"Gilbert Lisle coming home!" cried Carrie. "Then Kate Calderwood will
be happy at last. I suppose it will be all arranged this season?"

"Yes, his father is most anxious that he should settle; indeed, I
believe he wrote him out a furious letter, and said that if he did not
come home without delay he would marry again _himself_!" At this threat
all three ladies laughed immoderately.

"Imagine any sane woman marrying such an old Turk as Lord Lingard!"
drawled Miss Sharpe. "He is seventy if he is a day, bald and beaky,
and with a temper that has a European notoriety; the very idea of his
supposing that he would get _any one_ to take him!"

"Yes, hideous old creature," chimed in Clara; "he always reminds me of
a white cockatoo with a pink bill."

(Nevertheless, any one of these young ladies would have said "Yes" with
pleasure had Lord Lingard asked them to be his.)

"I cannot imagine how any one ever married him originally," pursued
Miss Sharpe; "and yet they say that Lady Lingard was one of the
handsomest women of her day."

"Oh, but," put in Clara, delighted to impart this class of information,
"you know, they say that she married him out of pique, and she did not
live long. I suppose he worried her into her grave."

"No," rejoined Miss Sharpe; "though he _may_ have helped to kill her,
she died of consumption."

"Did she? and her eldest son is following her. He is in a rapid
decline," added Carrie. "And you say that Gilbert Lisle is really
coming home?" suddenly falling back on the original topic.

"So I'm told. Mother is going to send him a card for our dance. But I
never believe in him till I see him."

"How I wish we knew him," ejaculated Clara, looking at her visitor
wistfully.

"Oh, you know he is not a society man, only goes to a few houses and
some country places where there is good shooting; now and then you see
him at a ball, or in a squash in some staircase; but he has a very
fair idea of his own value, and never makes himself _cheap_," and Miss
Sharpe smiled rather disagreeably.

"That's the way with all these rich bachelors," exclaimed Carrie. "They
are so spoilt, and so abominably conceited."

"I wonder how he got on among the savages?" said Miss Sharpe.

Little did she guess that the girl who was sitting in the background,
with bent head and burning face, could have answered her question then
and there.

"I wonder if it will come off with Katie, after all?" exclaimed Carrie.
"She is the girl he used to ride with in the park last year, is she
not?—very freckled, with high shoulders. She comes to our church. I
wonder what he sees in her?" she added.

"It is his father, my dear, who sees _everything_ in her: her property
'march,' as they call it, with the Lingard estates."

"And so she is to be Mrs. Gilbert Lisle?"

"I believe so." And with this remark the subject dropped.

Helen had listened to this conversation with crimson face and throbbing
heart. Everything was accounted for now; he had been simply amusing
himself with her. This man, who was accustomed to be made much of by
London beauties, who was eagerly sought for by house parties in country
houses—was it likely that he would be really serious in making love
to an obscure girl like herself, a girl whom he had come across in his
wanderings among savage islands? "No," she told herself, "not at all
likely; his actions spoke for him. He had been simply seeing how much
she would believe, repeating a _rôle_ that he had doubtless played
dozens of times previously. And during his wanderings his wealthy
destined bride, Miss Calderwood, was all the time awaiting him in
England. _She_ was to be Mrs. Gilbert Lisle."

"I do declare you have stitched that on the wrong side out! What can
you _have_ been thinking of?" demanded Clara very sharply, when her
fashionable friend had departed. "You will have to rip it, and put it
on properly. Your wits must have been wool-gathering!"

If Clara had known where her cousin's thoughts had been, she would
have been very much surprised for once in her life, and ejaculated her
favourite exclamation, "Fancy, just fancy!" with unusual animation.

The day after this visit Helen was asked to accompany her cousin
Carrie on foot to Bond Street, not an unusual honour. She was useful
for carrying small parcels; true, her mourning was shabby, but none of
the Platts' acquaintances knew who she was, and, if the worst came to
the worst, she might pass as a superior-looking lady's-maid. On their
way back from the shops Carrie took it into her head to take a turn
in the park. It was about twelve o'clock, and the Row was gay with a
fashionable throng of pedestrians. Carrie met several friends, to whom
she gave a bow here and a nod there, and Helen, to her great amazement,
recognized one while yet afar off, and, although garbed in a frock
coat and tall hat—yes, she actually beheld Mr. Quentin coming towards
her, walking with a very well-dressed woman, and followed by two red
dachshunds. She was positive that the recognition was mutual, and was
pleased in her present barren life to hail any acquaintance from Port
Blair—even him! When they came almost face to face she bowed and
smiled, and would have stopped, but he merely glanced at her as if she
were some most casual acquaintance, swept off his hat, and passed on.
Evidently Port Blair and Rotten Row were two very different places.

A flood of scarlet rushed over her face, which her quick-eyed companion
did not fail to notice, and said—

"Who is that gentleman?"

"A Mr. Quentin. I knew him at Port Blair."

"Fancy! I have heard of him. He is quite in society; he is a friend of
the Sharpes. I believe he is rather fascinating—but frightfully in
debt."

Helen made no reply, but walked on in silence, and Miss Platt put two
and two together with much satisfaction to herself. Helen's undoubted
confusion signified of course that she cherished an unrequited
attachment for this good-looking, faithless man who had just now gone
by with a cool ceremonious bow. So much for her cousin's admirers in
the Andamans!