Several doors were opened to Helen, offering her a home, but she
steadily resisted all invitations. She felt that she would be occupying
an anomalous position by remaining on at Port Blair, without having any
real claim on any one in the settlement. If there had been some small
children to teach,—save those in the native school,—or if there were
any means by which she could have earned her livelihood, it would have
been different; but, of course, in a place like the Andamans, there was
no such opening. The community were extremely anxious to keep her among
them, and were kinder to her than words could express. Mrs. Graham
besought her most earnestly to remain with her as a sister, and urged
her petition repeatedly.

"The favour will be conferred by _you_, my dear, and you know it," she
said. "Think of the long, lonely days I spend at Chatham, cut off from
all society in bad weather, and in the monsoon, I sometimes don't see
another white woman for weeks. Imagine the boon your company would be
to me. Remember that your father was an old friend of Dick's, and say
that you will try us for at least a year. We will do our very best to
make you happy."

And other suggestions were delicately placed before Helen. Would she
remain, not as Miss Denis, but as _Mrs._ somebody? To one and all, she
made the same reply, she must go home, at least, she must go back to
England; her aunt had written, and desired her to return at the first
opportunity, and her aunt was her nearest relation now, and all her
future plans were in her hands. Mrs. Home was returning in March, they
would sail together.

"If I were not obliged to place Tom and Billy at school, and see after
my big boys, I would not _allow_ you to leave at all, Helen," said her
friend and hostess decidedly, "but would insist on your remaining with
us as one of our family, a kind of eldest daughter."

Nevertheless, Mrs. Home cherished strong but secret hopes that her
young _protégée_ would stay at Port Blair, in spite of her own
departure. Was not Mr. Quentin expected from Camorta by the very next
mail?

Mrs. Creery would have liked Helen to remain with some one (not
herself, for she was not given to hospitality). She considered that
she would be a serious loss to the community, and was quite fond
of her in her own way. Why should she not marry Jim Quentin? was a
question she often asked herself in idle, empty moments. It would be
a grand match for a penniless girl; a wedding would be a pleasant
novelty, no matter how quiet, and she herself was prepared to give the
affair her countenance, and to endow the young couple with a set of
plated nut-crackers that had scarcely ever been used! One day, roaming
rather aimlessly through the bazaar, she came across "Ibrahim," Mr.
Quentin's butler, and was not the woman to lose a rich opportunity of
cross-examining such an important functionary. She beckoned him aside
with an imperious wave of the hand, and commenced the conversation by
asking a very foolish question, "When did you hear from your master?"
seeing that there had been no mail in, since she had seen Ibrahim last,
"when is he expected?"

"Mr. Quentin not my master any more," he returned, with dignity, "I
take leave that time Sahib going Nicobars."

"Having made your fortune?" drawing down the corner of her mouth as she
spoke.

"I plenty poor man, where fortune getting?" he replied, with an air of
surprised and injured innocence.

"Stuff and nonsense! you know you butlers make heaps out of bachelors
like Mr. Quentin, who never look at their accounts, but just pay down
piles of rupees, like the idiots they are; and what about Mr. Lisle?"

Ibrahim grinned and displayed an ample row of ivory teeth.

"Ah," with animation, "that very good gentleman, never making no
bobbery! Plenty money got!"

"Plenty money! How do you know?"

"First time coming paying half—after two weeks paying _all_;" in
answer to the lady's gesture of astonishment. "Truth I telling! wages,
boats, bazaar, and _all_!"

"And what did Mr. Quentin say?"

"Oh," laughing, "telling Lisle, Sahib plenty rupees got, I poor devil!
Mr. Quentin very funny gentleman, making too much bobbery, swearing too
much, throwing boots and bottles, no money giving; I plenty fraiding,
and so I taking leave," concluded Ibrahim majestically.

This little side-light on Mr. Quentin's manners was a revelation to
Mrs. Creery. And so Lisle was _really_ rich! the dinner she had graced
at Aberdeen (on a mutton day), had been given at _his_ expense, and all
the establishment of servants, coolies, and boatmen had been maintained
by him. She pondered much over this discovery—and, marvellous to
relate, kept it to herself.

Colonel Denis had now been dead about two months, and his daughter was
once more to be seen out of doors, and walking about the island; but
how different she looked, what a change a few weeks had made in her
appearance. She was clad in a plain black dress, her eyes were dim and
sunken, her face was thin and haggard, her figure had lost its nice
rounded outlines. She was trying to accustom herself to her new lot in
life; to that empty bungalow on the hill-side, that she never passed
without a shudder, for did it not represent the wreck of her home?

Something else had also been scattered to the winds, blown away into
space like gossamer-web in a gale, I mean that airy fabric known as
"Love's Young Dream."

She had been dwelling on four words, more than she herself imagined; on
the promise, "I shall come back," breathed under the palm-trees that
night, that saw "flying between the cold moon and the earth, Cupid all
armed!"