Helen's return was hailed with acclamation; her cousins, who had long
been on the look out, met her at the gate, and escorted her to the
kitchen, where she poured out her earnings and rendered a faithful
account of her dealings to Sally—Sally, who cross-examined her
sharply, and was transparently jealous of her success. Indeed, the only
poor consolation left Miss MacGravy was, that her deputy had failed
with the "sparrow-grass."

"One and sixpence, miss, I tould ye, and ye took the shilling! however,
ye were clever with the cauliflowers, and on the whole, ye done well!"

"I should rather think she _had_ done well!" said Dido, sweeping up the
silver. "What are you going to say to them next week, Sally, when they
all come asking for the smart new girl?"

"Oh, faix, it's not many will do that, they are mostly too earnest
after bargains—but if they do, I'll just tell a good one when I go
about it, and face them all down, that there was ne'er a one in it, but
myself!"

"You won't find it easy to make them believe that," said Dido
emphatically; "that would be a _good_ one with a vengeance!" taking her
cousin by the arm and leading her affectionately to the upper regions,
where a delicate little repast awaited her.

Helen having given her relatives a modified account of her adventures
(in which she dwelt on Larry's ferocious guardianship, but skipped all
mention of the two most thrilling incidents of the day, _i.e._, Gilbert
Lisle's unexpected appearance, and Barry's unwelcome proposal), was
considered to have richly earned the right to enjoy an afternoon of
pure and unalloyed idleness. The white blinds in the drawing-room were
pulled down to keep out the sun, the sashes were up to admit a little
breeze, and she lay back in a comfortable chair, watching Dido's busy
fingers at work.

Presently her cousin looked up, and said, "I don't know whether it's
the colour of the blinds, or what, Helen, but you look completely done
up. I'm afraid that adventure this morning was too much for you!"

"Oh, no, not the least—my arms are a little stiff from driving the
mule, that's all, _tough_ is no name for him!"

"Only fancy your making nearly five pounds!" laying down her work as
she spoke.

"I made more than that—something which I have not shown you," putting
her hand in her pocket, and holding it out, with a sovereign in her
palm.

"Gold!"

"Yes. Who do you think rode up and tossed it down among the
cabbage-leaves, and asked for a flower?"

"Not—_not_ Mr. Lisle?"

"Yes, but it was Mr. Lisle."

"And you—did you faint?"

"Not I. I stooped and pretended to be tying my shoe the moment after
I recognized him. Of course he may have been staring at me for five
minutes, for all I know. No doubt he thought the market-girl had a look
of his former sweetheart, and he threw her a sovereign, as a kind of
little salve to his conscience," contemptuously balancing the said coin
on her middle finger.

For quite two minutes Dido did not answer. There was not a sound in the
room, excepting the lazy flapping of the window blind. At length she
said rather reproachfully,—

"Helen, I think if I had once cared for a person, as you certainly did
for Mr. Lisle, I could not speak of him so bitterly."

"I am sure you could not! But you are naturally far more amiable than
I am, and your illusions have never been shattered. The last two
years have hardened me. I seem to stand alone in the world. I have
no protector but Helen Denis. I use my natural weapon, my tongue,
rather mercilessly sharp, cutting speeches seem to slip out of my
mouth unawares, and they hurt no one half as much as they do me,
afterwards,—when I am sorry!"

"I never heard you say anything sharp, until that speech about Mr.
Lisle. Now that he is in the country, how will you meet him?"

"Certainly not 'in silence and tears,' like the individual in the
song; most probably with a smiling allusion to our former delightful
acquaintance."

"Now, Helen, you know you won't."

"No! Well then we shall probably shake hands, and say—'How do you do?
What lovely weather we are having.' That will be all."

At this moment the door was thrown open with a violence that shook its
ancient hinges, and Katie, who had been absent ever since dinner-time,
burst into the room. She was breathless with excitement, her cheeks
were crimson, and there was certainly a spark of triumph in her eye.

"Girls!" she gasped, "what do you think has happened? No, I'm not going
to let you guess, because I can't keep it another second—Barry has
asked me to marry him!"

An awful pause ensued, and then Dido said, in a sharp voice, "And of
course you said no!"

"And of course I said yes! Only imagine my having a proposal before
_you_, Helen!" darting an exultant look at her pretty, pale cousin,
who now suddenly unclasped her hands from behind her head, and sat up
erect, and looked at her with eyes wide with horrified surprise.

Vanity is one of those curious elements in human nature which defy
every rule, and impel the victim into the most unexpected courses.
Barry had been put upon his mettle, and he was resolved to show Miss
Denis her mistake at any cost. Accordingly he offered himself to the
very first young lady he met, who happened to be her cousin, Katie,
and here, within four hours of Helen's scornful rejection of his hand,
he was engaged to a girl under the same roof as herself! The long
exciting day, the unexpected encounter with Gilbert, Barry's proposal,
and Barry's revenge, were too much for her over-wrought nerves; to the
horror of Dido, and the amazement of Katie, their cousin received the
news—and she, who had always been so _down_ on Barry—in a storm of
hysterical tears!