XII.

THE PARTISAN.


At the sight of the Indians, the American Rangers instinctively
clustered together, and the flankers came galloping in.

That the enemy were in force was evident from the boldness with which
they showed themselves, coming running out, and spreading into a long
skirmish line, that threatened to cut off the rangers from any return
to their own army.

It was evident that they were in a trap from which there was no escape,
except by cutting their way out, twenty white men against nearly a
hundred Indians. The hunters that followed Adrian, bold as they were
by nature, began to evince symptoms of shrinking from the test. Brave
militia, as far as service in war went, they were as yet only the raw
stuff that veterans are made of. Many cheeks were pale, and there was
much nervous fumbling at weapons, but they kept silence and anxiously
watched the countenance of their young leader for advice and succor.

Adrian Schuyler had not served, as volunteer and officer, in the famous
corps of the Zieten Hussars, without profiting by the counsels of the
best leaders of light cavalry in Europe. He scanned the advancing line
of the enemy with great coolness, riding out in front of his men, and
using his telescope.

His example was inspiring to his men, and insensibly the most nervous
forgot his tremors when he saw the coolness of his captain.

The Indians were as yet out of gunshot, they were advancing on foot,
and some five or six horsemen were visible in their line. Adrian
watched them close, and saw that if he could break through the line he
could laugh at pursuit, all his men being mounted and most of the enemy
on foot. He turned his glass to the Hessian camp, and saw no symptoms
of disturbance there. The stolid dragoon sentries paced to and fro on
the parapet of the breastwork, and did not seem to notice the impending
conflict outside.

Then he turned to speak to his men, and met the blue eyes of Diana.
She was watching him apprehensively, as if she sympathized with his
danger, and longed to avert it, while powerless. Schuyler pointed to
the distant woods, saying:

“For God’s sake, young lady, ride away out of danger. The bullets will
soon be flying, and they will not respect even your beauty.”

“Why not come with me?” she asked. “I can lead you away by a path where
there are no Indians.”

“Thanks for your offer,” said the hussar, gratefully. “It is one that I
would accept, were it not that I have promised General Stark to be back
by a certain hour at his headquarters. My way lies through the enemy.”

“And do you really mean to charge those fierce creatures?” she asked in
a tone of wonder.

“I really do,” he said, quietly. “There’s not half as much danger as
you would think. Rapid motion will take us safe through.”

“Then I go with you,” said the girl, firmly.

Adrian laughed.

“Nonsense, Diana. Your presence here shows that you’re on our side,
but you can do no good with us. Depart while you may. They are almost
within gunshot.”

“I am going with you,” said Diana, firmly. “If it is a mere matter of
fast riding, I can ride too.”

“But you may escape by going the other way,” objected Schuyler.

“Which I shall not do,” she said. “I’ve taken a fancy to see what you
soldiers call a battle, and you can not stop me, so you may as well
attend to your men.”

The hussar shrugged his shoulders, and turned away to his followers,
just as several white puffs of smoke came from the enemy’s skirmishers,
followed by the thump, thump, of two or three bullets, tearing up the
earth around them. The horses began to fidget, and the faces of the men
were somewhat uneasy. Adrian saw that they must be encouraged at once,
or possibly desert in confusion.

He drew his sword and threw back the dripping cloak from his arm, while
he spoke to the rangers.

“Men,” he said, “it’s time we were doing something. Never flinch from a
few bullets at long range. Those fellows are firing to no purpose. Fall
in, and deploy as skirmishers.”

The rangers promptly obeyed the order. Adrian knew that in times of
danger, men should be occupied, and he insisted on his line being
formed in perfect order, even when the bullets began to whistle
unpleasantly near. The longer the men were exposed to a harmless fire,
the greater grew their confidence, and contempt for the enemy. As soon
as the line was formed, the hussar gave the signal to fall back, which,
as he anticipated, provoked a loud yell, and rattling volley from the
enemy, who took the run in their eagerness. The rangers retired at a
slow trot, the hussar keeping in the rear and watching his foe keenly,
till he saw that the rapid motion was producing the desired effect.

The excited enemy were firing wild.

“Halt!” he suddenly shouted. “Face about, lads! We’ve gone far enough.
Now, follow me, and charge!”

A moment later, with the fair Diana at his side, the ex-hussar was
bearing down on the Indians at full speed, followed by his rangers.
Schuyler’s men all carried broadswords, in the use of which they were
somewhat clumsy, it is true, but strong arms made up the deficiency.

The sudden change of demeanor on the part of the horsemen produced a
result highly favorable to them. The Indians, who always have a dread
of dragoons, fired a harmless, scattering volley, and were then left
with empty pieces while the patriots charged home.

“Now we have them,” cried Adrian, exultingly. “Ride over them, lads,
and then on to our own camp. If a man gets wounded, I’m mistaken.”

The example of their leader stimulated the men to greater courage, and
they uttered a hearty cheer as they drove on. The rain beat in their
faces, and the wind whistled past as they went, but the enemy were just
as much in the rain, and the Americans knew that the fire would damp
the powder of their foes.

It took but a minute to decide the question. At the full gallop the
whole party of the rangers neared the enemy, and far in front rode
Adrian Schuyler, closely followed by Diana.

The few horsemen who were with the Indians seemed to be officers, for
they were seen dashing up and down the line, encouraging the wavering
savages to stand. Adrian noticed one tall, powerful figure among them,
which he recognized as the Tory, Butler, and he bent his course toward
that part of the line, knowing that if he could overthrow the bold
leader, the followers would probably be demoralized.

A moment later, he charged against the partisan, who met him, wielding
a long broadsword.

Adrian was a splendid swordsman, and equally good horseman, and his
steed was perfectly trained, no slight advantage in a single combat,
mounted. His antagonist, however, proved to be equally matched. In
hight and weight he was far superior to Adrian, and his blows came like
those of sledgehammers, while his big horse obeyed the rein easily.

But the hussar didn’t wait long to fight. There were too many enemies
near him. His men had already dashed through the line, and were past
him on their way to Stark’s forces, when his antagonist suddenly,
without any visible cause, turned pale, dropped his sword-hand, and
wrenched his horse back several paces, while he glared over his enemy’s
shoulder, as if at some frightful vision.

Involuntarily Schuyler glanced back himself, and beheld the beautiful
face of the mysterious Diana close by, deadly pale with excitement,
while her long hair streamed over the cheeks, wet and clinging with
the rain, like that of a drowned person.

He turned once more to his foe, and beheld the hitherto fierce face
drawn down with abject fear, as the dreaded partisan ground out the
single word “_Diana!_” and then turned to flee.

Adrian’s horse bounded after him, and the hussar discharged a blow that
cut open the other’s shoulder, which, to his amazement, Butler never
even tried to parry.

The spiteful hiss of a bullet past his ear, cutting away a curl in
its passage, told him that he was not wise to tarry longer. Turning
away, he found himself and Diana almost alone amid the enemy, who
were rallying from their discomfiture, and hastening to cut them off.
The hussar uttered a shout of defiance, seized the bridle of his fair
companion, and galloped away after his rangers.