The star that rose in the east at sunset was high in the zenith over
the besiegers’ camp, and the Indians were slumbering around their
camp-fires, while the nodding picket sentry hardly kept awake on his
post, when the loud blast of a horn echoed through the silent arches of
the forest, followed by a chorus of yells and cries that roused every
one in an instant.

Bewildered and half-awake, Tory and Indian scrambled up to their feet,
and the English General rushed out of his tent, half-dressed, to know
the meaning of the outcry.

Two Indians, yelling as they ran, were coming in from the outposts at
headlong speed, and their cries seemed to spread a panic among all the
neighboring savages, for wherever they were heard, Mohawk and Oneida,
Seneca and Tuscarora, alike joined the swelling mob that came rushing
through the camp.

“The rebels! the rebels are coming! Run! Run!” was the cry that was
speedily taken up, by white and red alike, when they heard the alarm
more plainly.

Although not a foeman was to be seen, there were sounds of a trampling
in the woods, the snapping of sticks and an occasional shout in the
distance, which gave color to the panic.

In vain St. Leger and Sir John Johnson rushed to and fro, trying to
arrest the causeless rout. The tumult was too great for their voices
to be heard. The Indians, from the very first, commenced a retreat
_en masse_, as if by previous concert; then one regiment of rangers
gave way and scattered through the woods, despite the cries of their
officers, going to the rear at a run, shouting, “The rebels are coming!”

In less than ten minutes from the first blast of the horn, the two
English leaders were left almost alone, and when the glare of torches
in the distance, with the sight of armed men on horseback, showed them
that an enemy was indeed approaching, they found that they had not
sufficient following to resist a squadron of dragoons. Utterly amazed
and demoralized, the two Englishmen were fain to follow the example of
their followers, and hastily mounting their horses, galloped away to
join the rout.

Meanwhile the trampling came nearer and nearer, and soon, out of the
woods rode Adrian Schuyler, at the center of a long, scattered skirmish
line of American Rangers, in the white frocks of Morgan’s Rifles, every
man bearing a torch of pitch pine.

They advanced warily, but boldly, only to find the enemy’s camp
deserted, the idle artillery silent in the batteries, the ground
strewed with forsaken weapons and stores.

Adrian rode up to the bastion on whose summit stood the amazed
garrison, and waved his torch in salute, crying:

“Gentlemen, you are saved. We are the advance of the relief column
under General Arnold. Burgoyne has lost all his cavalry at Bennington,
and lies at Stillwater, surrounded by our men. Hurrah for Independence!”

The cheer was given with a will.