The British bull-dog and the German boarhound stood stubbornly at bay
behind the brown trenches in the little curve of the Wollonsac. At the
summit of a hillock stood a battery of four brass pieces, behind which,
rank upon rank of riderless horses stood patiently at their posts,
awaiting the result of the battle. The whole of Baum’s force was made
up of dragoons, who fought desperately on foot, to defend their led
horses.

All around the camp the grim circle of patriots was pressing closer and
closer on the British, in a ring of white smoke, through which the red
flashes of rifles shot incessantly. The rattle of musketry was, and
had been for three mortal hours, “one long clap of thunder,” as Stark
himself afterward wrote.

And still the battle hung in suspense. The General’s horse was shot
under him, and he rushed about on foot, his drawn sword gleaming in his
hand, encouraging his troops to stand up against the fearful fire. The
Americans had no artillery, and no bayonets on their rifles, but they
rushed on to the charge with just as much vigor as veterans, and still
the battle wavered.

It was just at this doubtful moment, when the least influence, one way
or the other was important, that a loud, ringing cheer was heard over
the roar of the musketry-firing, and through the white smoke rushed
several horsemen at full speed, riding up the hillocks on whose summit
the English battery was planted.

First on a charger as black as jet, rode a tall, thin officer in the
broad-plumed hat and black curling wig of many a long year before. His
black velvet coat and bright steel breastplate were those one sees in
the portraits of Louis the Fourteenth of France, and he waved a long
rapier in his hand, of the same antique fashion.

Even in the momentary glimpse caught of him amid the battle smoke, men
marveled at the paleness of his face, and at the weird fire in his
cavernous black eyes.

Following him closely was Adrian Schuyler, with his score of mounted
rangers, but all seemed to be under the sway and control of the pale
man on the black horse. A moment later, the black charger was among the
guns, and the long blade flashed in the air, as the pale rider smote
right and left with fearful strength.

Then like a wave, the handful of horse dashed on the dismounted
dragoons and cut their way through. It was but a trifling aid, but
all-sufficient.

The sight encouraged one party and discouraged the other
proportionately.

With a roar and a volley, the Americans followed, and the German
dragoons broke and fled.

Past the swaying, helpless herd of led horses they were driven, too
much harassed to be allowed time to mount. Pell-mell after them
followed the Green-Mountain Boys, and Bennington was won.