On the afternoon of the 5th October, a strong party of dragoons left
the English camp headed by the bold and wary partisan who has figured
in our pages under so many different names, in reality the most trusty
spy and best leader of Indians in the pay of Burgoyne. Of his former
history even his commander knew nothing, save that he had joined to
volunteer his services at the taking of Ticonderoga.

Some baleful spirit seemed now to animate the partisan, urging him on
to feverish eagerness, as he hurried the departure of the dragoons, and
rode off, accompanied by Sir Francis Clark. The sound of the American
bands behind Gates’ intrenchments, could be distinctly heard; for,
since the battle of the 19th September, the English had moved forward
to within cannon-shot of the American lines, where they had fortified
themselves.

Butler shook his clenched hand at the enemy’s quarters with a look of
rage, muttering to Clark, as he rode away:

“Let them blow and whistle, Clark. Once give me back my Indians, and
we’ll soon sweep them out of the path.”

“If we can not do it without Indian help,” said the aid-de-camp,
coldly, “I see but little chance of success. The Indians are but
unreliable cattle at the best.”

Clark was by no means an admirer of Butler or his allies. In common
with most of the cultivated English officers, he fell a strong
repugnance to the employment of such barbarous allies.

Butler laughed sardonically.

“Ay, ay, that’s the way they all talk when ill luck falls on a man. I
am no leader of pipeclayed grenadiers, and you look down on me. But by
the light of heaven, Sir Francis, once let me get my warriors back,
with my old corps of rangers, and I’ll show you that Indians can fight.”

The officer made no answer, and they rode on into the woods, till they
struck the blaze that Sir Francis had made with his sword, which they
followed without much difficulty.

Once on the track, the partisan took the lead at a rapid pace. His keen
and practiced eye read the signs of the forest with far more ease than
the aid-de-camp, even though the latter was following his own trail.
The length of time since the blaze was made, and the faint nature of
the marks would have puzzled the officer not a little, but to the
partisan the task was but child’s play.

On they went at a pace of seven or eight miles an hour, through the
rapidly darkling woods, till they found themselves, at sunset, in a
country broken by ravines, where the blaze abruptly ended before a
thicket of wild raspberries, which hid the entrance to a narrow gorge
in the side of a hill.

Here Butler dismounted, and examined the vicinity carefully, when
he announced to the aid-de-camp that a party of Indians were in the
vicinity, and that he was going to seek them out and call them to his
assistance.

The marks of moccasins had not deceived him. When he sounded a peculiar
call on his turkey-bone whistle, it was answered almost immediately,
and, soon after, a war-party of Mohawks made its appearance.