THREE

                             The Painting


A robot came in, wheeling a tray with steaming dishes.

"Let's sit down," suggested Nevin.

"Just one thing," asked West. "How did you get Stella back to Earth?
None of you could have taken her. You'd have been recognized."

Cartwright chuckled. "Robertson," he said. "We had one ship and he
slipped out. As to the recognition, Belden is our physician. He also,
if you remember, is a plastic surgeon of no mean ability."

"He did the job," said Nevin, "for both Robertson and Stella."

"Nearly skinned us alive," grumbled Cartwright, "to get enough to do
the work, I'll always think that he took more than he really needed,
just for spite. He's a moody beggar."

Nevin changed the subject. "Shall we have Rosie sit with us?"

"Rosie?" asked West.

"Rosie is Stella's sister. We don't know the exact relationship, but we
call her that for convenience."

"There are times," explained Cartwright, "when we forget her face and
let her sit at the table's head, as if she were one of us. As if she
were our hostess. She looks remarkably like a woman, you know. Those
wings of hers are like an ermine cape, and that platinum hair. She
lends something to the table ... a sort of--"

"An illusion of gentility," said Nevin.

"Perhaps we'd better not tonight," decided Cartwright. "Mr. West is not
used to her. After he's been here awhile--"

He stopped and looked aghast.

"We've forgotten something," he announced.

He rose and strode around the table to the imitation fireplace and took
down a bottle that stood on the mantelpiece--a bottle with a black
silk bow tied around its neck. Ceremoniously, he set it in the center
of the table, beside the bowl of fruit.

"It's a little joke we have," said Nevin.

"Scarcely a joke," contradicted Cartwright.

West looked puzzled. "A bottle of whisky?"

"But a special bottle," Cartwright said. "A very special bottle.
Back in the old days we formed a last man's club, jokingly. This
bottle was to be the one the last man would drink. It made us feel so
adventuresome and brave and we laughed about it while we labored to
find hormones. For, you see, none of us thought it would ever come to
pass."

"But now," said Nevin, "there are only three of us."

"You are wrong," Cartwright reminded him. "There are four."

Both of them looked at West.

"Of course," decided Nevin. "There are four of us."

Cartwright spread the napkin in his lap. "Perhaps, Louis, we might as
well let Mr. West see the painting."

Nevin hesitated. "I'm not quite satisfied, Cartwright...."

Cartwright clucked his tongue. "You're too suspicious, Louis. He had
the creature, didn't he? He knew about your painting. There was only
one way that he could have learned."

Nevin considered. "I suppose you're right," he said.

"And if Mr. West should, by any chance, turn out to be an impostor,"
said Cartwright, cheerfully, "we can always take the proper steps."

Nevin said to West: "I hope you understand."

"Perfectly," said West.

"We must be very careful," Nevin pointed out. "So few would understand."

"So very few," said West.

Nevin stepped across the room and pulled a cord that hung along the
wall. One of the tapestries rolled smoothly back, fold on heavy fold.
West, watching, held his breath at what he saw.

A tree stood in the foreground, laden with golden fruit, fruit that
looked exactly like some of that in the bowl upon the table. As if
someone had just stepped into the painting and picked it fresh for
dinner.

Under the tree ran a path, coming up to the very edge of the canvas in
such detail that even the tiny pebbles strewn upon it were clear to the
eye. And from the tree the path ran back against a sweep of background,
climbing into wooded hills.

For the flicker of a passing second, West could have sworn that he
heard the whisper of wind in the leaves of the fruit-laden tree, that
he saw the leaves tremble in the wind, that he smelled the fragrance of
little flowers that bloomed along the path.

"Well, Mr. West?" Nevin asked, triumphantly.

"Why," said West, ears still cocked for the sound of wind in leaves
again. "Why, it almost seems as if one could step over and walk
straight down that path."

Nevin sucked in his breath with a sound that was neither gasp nor sigh,
but somewhere in between. Down at the end of the table, Cartwright was
choking on his wine, chuckling laughter bubbling out between his lips
despite all his efforts to keep it bottled up.

"Nevin," asked West, "have you ever thought of making another painting?"

"Perhaps," said Nevin. "Why do you ask?"

West smiled. Through his brain words were drumming, words that he
remembered, words a man had whispered just before he died.

"I was just thinking," said West, "of what might happen if you should
paint the wrong place sometime."

"By Lord," yelled Cartwright, "he's got you there, Nevin. The exact
words I've been telling you."

Nevin started to rise from the table, and even as he did the rustling
whisper of music filled the room. Music that relaxed Nevin's hands from
their grip upon the table's edge, music that swept the sudden chill
from between West's shoulderblades.

Music that told of keen-toothed space and the blaze of stars. Music
that had the whisper of rockets and the quietness of the void and the
somber arches of eternal night.

Rosie was singing.