Something glinted at the head of the cot and West walked to where it
hung. It was a watch, a shining watch, polished with years of care.
It swung slowly from a leather thong tied to the rod that formed the
cot's head, where a man could reach out in the dark and read it.

West took it in his hand and turned it over, saw the engraving that ran
across its back. Bending low, he read the inscription in the feeble
light.

               To Walter J. Darling, from class of '16,
                            Mars Polytech.

West straightened, understanding and disbelief stirring in his mind.

Walter J. Darling, that huddle on the floor? Walter J. Darling, one
of the solar system's greatest biologists, dead in this filthy hut?
Darling, teacher for years at Mars Polytechnical Institute, that
shrunken, liquor-sodden corpse in shoddy underwear?

West wiped his forehead with the back of his space-gloved hand. Darling
had been a member of that mysterious government commission assigned
to the cold laboratories on Pluto, sent there to develop artificial
hormones aimed at controlled mutation of the human race. A mission
that had been veiled in secrecy from the first because it was feared,
and rightly so, that revelation of its purpose might lead to outraged
protests from a humanity that could not imagine why it should be
improved biologically.

A mission, thought West, that had set out in mystery and ended in
mystery, mystery that had sent whispers winging through the solar
system. Shuddery whispers.

Louis? That would be Louis Nevin, another member of the Pluto
commission. He was the man Darling had tried to tell about just before
he died.

And Nevin must still be out here on Pluto, must still be alive despite
the message that had come to Earth.

But the painting didn't fit. Nevin wasn't an artist. He was a
biologist, scarcely second to Darling.

The message of three years before had been a phony, then. There were
men still on the planet.

And that meant, West told himself bitterly, that his own plan had gone
awry. For Pluto was the only place in the Solar System where there
would be food and shelter and to which no one would ever come.

He remembered how he had planned it all so carefully ... how it had
seemed a perfect answer. There would be many years' supply of food
stacked in the storerooms, there would be comfortable living quarters,
and there would be tools and equipment should he ever need them.
And, of course, the Thing, whatever it might be. The horror that had
closed the planet, that had set the space patrol to guard the planet's
loneliness.

But West had never been too concerned with what he might find on Pluto,
for whatever it might be, it could be no worse than the bitterness that
was his on Earth.

There was something going on at the Pluto laboratories. Something that
the government didn't know about or that the government had suppressed
along with that now infamous report of three years before.

Something that Darling could have told him had he wanted to ... or had
he been able. But now Walter J. Darling was past all telling. West
would have to find out by himself.

West stepped to where he lay, lifted him to the cot and covered him
with a tattered blanket.

Perched on the cot head, Annabelle chattered and giggled and drooled.

"Come here, you," said West. "Come on over here."

Annabelle came, slowly and coyly. West lifted her squeamishly, thrust
her into an outer pocket and zipped it shut. He started toward the
doorway.

On the way out he picked the empty bottle from the floor, added it to
the pyramid outside.