The table was set with white cloth and shining silver that gleamed in
the light of the flickering dinner tapers. Sparkling wine glasses stood
in their proper places. The centerpiece was a bowl of fruit--but fruit
such as West had never seen before.

Cartwright tilted a chair and dumped a thing that had been sleeping
there onto the floor.

"Your place, Mr. West," he said.

The thing uncoiled itself and glared at West with an eye of fishy
hatred, purred with lusty venom and slithered out of sight.

Across the table Louis Nevin apologized. "The damn things keep sneaking
through all the time. I suppose, Mr. West, you have trouble with them,
too."

"We tried rat traps," said Cartwright, "but they were too smart for
that. So we get along with them the best we can."

West laughed to cover momentary confusion, but he found Nevin's eyes
upon him.

"Annabelle," he said, "is the only one that ever bothered me."

"You're lucky," Nevin told him. "They get to be pests. There is one of
them that insists on sleeping with me."

"Where's Belden?" Cartwright asked.

"He ate early," explained Nevin. "Said there were a few things he
wanted to get done. Asked to be excused."

He said to West, "James Belden. Perhaps you've heard of him."

West nodded.

He pulled back his chair, started to sit down, then jerked erect.

A woman had appeared in the doorway, a woman with violet eyes and
platinum hair and wrapped in an ermine opera cloak. She moved forward
and the light from the flaring tapers fell across her face. West
stiffened at the sight, felt the blood run cold as ice within his veins.

For the face was not a woman's face. It was like a furry skull, like a
moth's face that had attempted to turn human and had stuck halfway.

Down at the end of the table, Cartwright was chuckling.

"You recognize her, Mr. West?"

West clutched the back of his chair so hard that his knuckles suddenly
were white.

"Of course I do," he said. "The White Singer. But how did you bring her
here?"

"So that's what they call her back on Earth," said Nevin.

"But her face," insisted West. "What's happened to her face?"

"There were two of them," said Nevin. "One of them we sent to Earth. We
had to fix her up a bit. Plastic surgery, you know."

"She sings," said Cartwright.

"Yes, I know," said West. "I've heard her sing. Or, at least the other
one ... the one you sent to Earth with the made-over face. She's driven
practically everything else off the air. All the networks carry her."

Cartwright sighed. "I should like to hear her back on Earth," he said.
"She would sing differently there, you know, than she sang here."

"They sing," interrupted Nevin, "only as they feel."

"Firelight on the wall," said Cartwright, "and she'd sing like
firelight on the wall. Or the smell of lilacs in an April rain and her
music would be like the perfume of lilacs and the mist of rain along
the garden path."

"We don't have rain or lilacs here," said Nevin and he looked, for a
moment, as if he were going to weep.

Crazy, thought West. Crazy as a pair of bedbugs. Crazy as the man who'd
drunk himself to death out on Pluto's moon.

And yet, perhaps not so crazy.

"They have no mind," said Cartwright. "That is, no mind to speak of.
Just a bundle of nervous reactions, probably without the type of
sensory perceptions that we have, but more than likely with other
totally different sensory perceptions to make up for it. Sensitive
things. Music to them is an expression of sensory impressions. They
can't help the way they sing any more than a moth can help killing
himself against a candle-flame. And they're naturally telepathic. They
pick up thoughts and pass them along. Retain none of the thought, you
understand, just pass it along. Like old fashioned telephone wires.
Thoughts that listeners, under the spell of music, would pick up and
accept."

"And the beauty of it is," said Nevin, "is that if a listener ever
became conscious of those thoughts afterward and wondered about them,
he would be convinced that they were his own, that he had had them all
the time."

"Clever, eh?" asked Cartwright.

West let out his breath. "Clever, yes. I didn't think you fellows had
it in you."

West wanted to shiver and found he couldn't and the shiver built up and
up until it seemed his tautened nerves would snap.

Cartwright was speaking. "So our Stella is doing all right."

"What's that?" asked West.

"Stella. The other one of them. The one with the face."

"Oh, I see," said West. "I didn't know her name was Stella. No one, in
fact, knows anything about her. She suddenly appeared one night as a
surprise feature on one of the networks. She was announced as a mystery
singer, and then people began calling her the White Singer. She always
sang in dim, blue light, you see, and no one ever saw her face too
plainly, although everyone imagined, of course, that it was beautiful.

"The network made no bones about her being an alien being. She was
represented as a member of a mystery race that Juston Lloyd had found
in the Asteroids. You remember Lloyd, the New York press agent."

Nevin was leaning across the table. "And the people, the government, it
does not suspect?"

West shook his head. "Why should it? Your Stella is a wonder. Everyone
is batty over her. The newspapers went wild. The movie people--"

"And the cults?"

"The cults," said West, "are doing fine."

"And you?" asked Cartwright and in the man's rumbling voice West felt
the challenge.

"I found out," he said, "I came here to get cut in."

"You know exactly what you are asking?"

"I do," said West, wishing that he did.

"A new philosophy," said Cartwright. "A new concept of life. New paths
for progress. Secrets the human race never has suspected. Remaking the
human civilization almost overnight."

"And you," said West, "right at the center, pulling all the strings."

"So," said Cartwright.

"I want a few to pull myself."

Nevin held up his hand. "Just a minute, Mr. West. We would like to know
just how--"

Cartwright laughed at him. "Forget it, Louis. He knew about your
painting. He had Annabelle. Where do you suppose he found out?"

"But--but--" said Nevin.

"Maybe he didn't use a painting," Cartwright declared. "Maybe he used
other methods. After all, there are others, you know. Thousands of
years ago men knew of the place we found. Mu, probably. Atlantis. Some
other forgotten civilization. Just the fact that West had Annabelle is
enough for me. He must have been there."

West smiled, relieved. "I used other methods," he told them.