A thing that chattered came out of the shadows in one corner of the hut
and leaped upon the bed. It hunched itself beside the man and stared
leeringly at West, its mouth a slit that drooled across its face, its
puckered hide a horror in the sickly light.

"Meet Annabelle," said the man. He whistled at the thing and it
clambered to his shoulder, cuddling against his cheek.

West shivered at the sight.

"Just passing through?" the man inquired.

"My name is West," West told him. "Heading for Pluto."

"Ask them to show you the painting," said the man. "Yes, you must see
the painting."

"The painting?"

"You deaf?" asked the man, belligerently. "I said a painting. You
understand--a picture."

"I understand," said West. "But I didn't know there were any paintings
there. Didn't even know there was anybody there."

"Sure there is," said the man. "There's Louis and--"

He lifted the bottle and took a snort.

"I got alcoholism," said the man. "Good thing, alcoholism. Keeps colds
away. Can't catch a cold when you got alcoholism. Kills you quicker
than a cold, though. Why, you might go on for years having colds--"

"Look," urged West, "you have to tell me about Pluto. About who's
there. And the painting. How come you know about them?"

The eyes regarded him with drunken cunning.

"You'd have to do something for me. Couldn't give you information like
that out of the goodness of my heart."

"Of course," agreed West. "Anything that you would like. You just name
it."

"You got to take Annabelle out of here," the man told him. "Take her
back where she belongs. It isn't any place for a girl like her. No fit
life for her to lead. Living with a sodden wreck like me. Used to be a
great man once ... yes, sir, a great man. It all came of looking for a
bottle. One particular bottle. Had to sample all of them. Every last
one. And when I sampled them, there was nothing else to do but drink
them up. They'd spoil for sure if you let them stand around. And who
wants a lot of spoiled liquor cluttering up the place?"

He took another shot.

"Been at it ever since," he explained. "Almost got them now. Ain't many
of them left. Used to think that I'd find the right bottle before it
was too late and then everything would be all right. Wouldn't do me no
good to find it now, because I'm going to die. Enough left to last me,
though. Aim to die plastered. Happy way to die."

"But what about those people on Pluto?" demanded West.

The whiskers snickered. "I fooled them. They gave me my choice. Take
anything you want, they said. Big-hearted, you understand. Pals to the
very last. So I took the whisky. Cases of it. They didn't know, you
see. I tricked them."

"I'm sure you did," said West. Tiny, icy feet ran up and down his
spine. For there was madness here, he knew, but madness with a pattern.
Somewhere, somehow, this twisted talk would fall into a pattern that
would make sense.

"But something went wrong," the man declared. "Something went wrong."

Silence whistled in the room.

"You see, Mr. Best," the man declared. "I--"

"West," said West. "Not Best. West."

The man did not seem to notice. "I'm going to die, you understand. Any
minute, maybe. Got a liver and heart and either one could kill me.
Drinking does that to you. Never used to drink. Got into the habit when
I was sampling all these bottles. Got a taste for it. Then there wasn't
anything to do--"

He hunched forward.

"Promise you will take Annabelle," he croaked.

Annabelle tittered at West, slobber drooling from her mouth.

"But I can't take her back," West protested, "unless I know where she
came from. You have to tell me that."

The man waggled a finger. "From far away," he croaked, "and yet not so
very far. Not so very far if you know the way."

West eyed Annabelle with the gorge rising in his throat.

"I will take her," he said. "But you have to tell me where."

"Thank you, Guest," said the man. He lifted the bottle and let it
gurgle.

"Not Guest," said West, patiently. "My name is--"

The man toppled forward off the bed, sprawled across the floor. The
bottle rolled crazily, spilling liquor in sporadic gushes.

West leaped forward, knelt beside the man and lifted him. The whiskers
moved and a whisper came from their tangled depths, a gasping whisper
that was scarcely more than a waning breath.

"Tell Louis that his painting--"

"Louis?" yelled West. "Louis who? What about--"

The whisper came again. "Tell him ... someday ... he'll paint a wrong
place and then...."

Gently West laid the man back on the floor and stepped away. The whisky
bottle still rocked to and fro beneath a chair where it had come to
rest.