FOUR

                             The Last Man


West stood silently at the bottom of the stairs. The room was too dark
to see anything, but the voice was coming from somewhere near the
table's end, close to the lighted painting.

I may have to kill him, West was thinking, and I must know where he is.
For the first shot has to do it, there'll be no time for a second.

"Rosie had no mind," the voice said out in the darkness. "That is, no
mind to speak of. But she was telepathic. Her brain picked up thoughts
and passed them on. And she could obey simple commands. Very simple
commands. And killing a man is so simple, Mr. West.

"Rosie stood here beside me and I knew every word that you and Belden
said. I did not blame you, West, for you had no way of knowing what you
did. But I did blame Belden and I sent Rosie up to get him.

"There's only one thing, West, that I hold against you. You should
not have killed Rosie. That was a great mistake, West, a very great
mistake."

"It was no mistake," said West. "I did it on purpose."

"Take it easy, Mr. West," said Cartwright. "Don't do anything that
might make me pull the trigger. Because I have a gun on you. Dead
center on you, West, and I never miss."

"I'll give you odds," said West, "that I can get you before you can
pull the trigger."

"Now, Mr. West," said Cartwright, "let's not get hot-headed about this.
Sure, you pulled a fast one on us. You tried to muscle in and you
almost sold us, although eventually we would have tripped you up. And
I admire your guts. Maybe we can work it out so no one will get killed."

"Start talking," West told him.

"It was too bad about Rosie," said Cartwright, "and I really hold that
against you, West, for we could have used Rosie to good advantage. But
after all, the work is started on the other planets and we still have
Stella. Our students are well grounded ... they can get along without
instructions for a little while and maybe by the time we need to get in
contact with them again we can find another one to replace our Rosie."

"Quit wandering around," said West. "Let's hear what you have in mind."

"Well," said Cartwright, "we're getting awfully short-handed. Belden's
dead and Darling's dead and if Robertson isn't dead by now he will be
very shortly. For after he took Stella to Earth, he tried to desert,
tried to run away. And that would never do, of course. He might tell
folks about us and we can't let anyone do that. For we are dead, you
see...."

He chuckled, the chuckle rolling through the darkness.

"It was a masterpiece, West, that broadcast. I was the last man alive
and I told them what had happened. I told them the spacetime continuum
had ruptured and things were coming through. And I gurgled ... I
gurgled just before I died."

"You didn't really die, of course," West said, innocently.

"Hell, no. But they think I did. And they still wake up screaming,
thinking how I must have died."

Ham, thought West. Pure, unadulterated ham. A jokester who would maroon
a man to die on a lonely moon. A man who held a gun in his fist while
he bragged about the things he'd done ... about how he had outwitted
Earth.

"You see," said Cartwright, "I had to make them believe that it really
happened. I had to make it so horrible that the government would never
make it public, so horrible they'd close the planet with an iron-tight
ban."

"You had to be alone," said West.

"That's right, West. We had to be alone."

"Well," said West. "You've almost got it now. There's only two of you
alive."

"The two of us," Cartwright said, "and you."

"You forget, Cartwright," said West. "You're going to kill me. You've
got a gun pointed at me and you're all set to pull the trigger."

"Not necessarily," said Cartwright. "We might make a deal."

I've got him now, thought West. I know exactly where he is. I can't see
him, but I know where he is. And the pay-off is in a minute. It'll be
one of us or the other.

"You aren't much use to us," said Cartwright, "but we might need you
later. You remember Langdon?"

"The one that got lost," said West.

Cartwright chuckled. "That's it, West. But he wasn't lost. We gave him
away. You see there was a--a--well, something, that could use him for a
pet and so we made it a present of Langdon."

He chuckled again. "Langdon didn't like the idea too well, but what
were we to do?"

"Cartwright," West said, evenly, "I'm going for my gun."

"What's that--" said Cartwright, but the other words were blotted out
by the hissing of his gun, firing even as he talked.

The beam hissed into the wall at the foot of the staircase, a spot that
had been covered only a split second before by West's head.

But West had dropped to a crouch almost as he spoke and now his own gun
was in his fist, tilting up, solid in his hand. His thumb pressed the
activator and then slid off.

Something dragged itself with heavy thumps across the floor and in the
stillness between the bumps, West heard the rasp of heavy breaths.

"Damn you, West," said Cartwright. "Damn you...."

"It's an old trick, Cartwright," said West, "that business of talking
to a man just before you kill him. Throwing him off guard, practically
ambushing him."

Came a sound of cloth dragging over cloth, the whistling of painful
breath, the thump of knees and elbows on the floor.

Then there was silence.

And a moment later something in some far corner squeaked and ran on
pattering, rat-sounding feet. Then the silence again.

The rat-feet were still, but there was another sound, a faint shout
as if someone far away were shouting ... from somewhere outside the
building, from somewhere outside ... from outside.

West crouched close against the floor, huddling there, the muzzle of
the gun resting on the carpet.

Outside ... outside ... outside....

The words hammered in his head.

Outside of what, he asked, but he knew the answer now. He knew where
he had seen the picture of the thing that had slept in the chair and
the other thing that squatted on the bedpost. And he knew the sound of
chirping and of chittering and of running feet.

Outside ... outside ... outside....

_Outside this world, of course._