Even as his mind whirled with this new thought, Wayne was running out
of the building into the street. Had Dr. Felder left any notes on that
"disturbance of a peculiar nature"? If he had, it would prove a real
lead. Something to work on. Even searching Dr. Felder's home for a
strange instrument that had reacted where others failed, was better
than hunting blindly here in the laboratory.

The taxicab with its slumbering driver was still where he had parked
it. Excitement running high within him, Wayne jumped in and gunned
northward. He was astonished to discover that the sun was almost
straight overhead. He'd been at the WRV laboratory a good six hours.

Along Michigan Boulevard there was no sign of life, save for people
sleeping in parked cars or on the sidewalk. Some vehicles were stalled
in the middle of the street, but others Wayne noted grimly had smashed
into store fronts or light poles.

It was a world of vast, motionless silence in which nothing stirred
save Wayne and the taxicab he had commandeered. In all of Chicago,
probably in all the world, Wayne Randall, who had never experienced the
sensation of sleep in his life, was the only person awake.

The tires squealed protestingly as he swung in to the curb in front of
the Felder home. Impatiently, Wayne dashed up the steps. The iron bonds
of habit made him ring a doorbell he knew wouldn't be answered, but he
stalked into the house without the formality of waiting.

"Doctor Felder!" he called out loudly. There was only the hollow echo
of his own voice for answer.

Swiftly Wayne began to search the house. There was little chance of
finding anyone awake or being able to awaken them when found, but at
least he'd make certain before searching the laboratory.

Frantically he ran from room to room. But the house was ominously
vacant, deserted.

He rushed with mounting desperation to the laboratory. It too was
deserted. Then Wayne's eyes riveted on the microscope, much smaller
than the one at the WRV lab, but constructed on the same principle.

Hope skyrocketed his spirit when he saw what lay beneath the microscope
lens. Nerve tissue in a nutrient solution. Perhaps this was the clue!
But when he peered closer he saw that the tissue was dead, had long ago
exhausted the solution. It must have been some time last night that Dr.
Felder had put it there.

But he had been working on the problem then, independently! Surely,
somewhere, there must be notes on the experiment. Hastily, Wayne
riffled through the papers in both the office desk and the one in the
laboratory. Nothing, not a single paper seemed to have any bearing on
whatever research Dr. Felder had been conducting. Wayne turned away
with a sinking heart.

Had the doctor truly solved the problem? And started somewhere with his
answer? Suddenly Wayne remembered that there was a garage beside the
house. If Dr. Felder had gone somewhere, his car would be missing.
Quickly Wayne ran out the back way and through the side door of the
garage.

The car was there! And seated in the gray sedan were two slumbering
figures--Dr. Felder and his daughter, Marcia. What had happened was
obvious. Dr. Felder had succumbed to sleep the instant he had settled
behind the wheel, before he had even turned the ignition switch.
Probably Marcia had tried to awaken him, and then fallen back, unable
to stay awake any longer herself.

But it was the leather portfolio on the seat that magnetized Wayne's
attention. His hands trembled as he opened it and began scanning the
several sheets of scribbled notes, and a diagram. A hook-up diagram for
a radio transmitter!

It was midnight when Wayne Randall stumbled from the control room of
WRV into the laboratory. On the floor, figures were beginning to stir.
Grayson, the head technician, opened his eyes. He stared at Wayne
blankly for a moment, then scrambled to his feet.

"Man alive!" he cried exultantly, "you've done it!"

Staggering with weariness Wayne fell into a chair.

"It was Doctor Felder," he said in a voice leaden with exhaustion.
"Give him the credit. He and his daughter are asleep, in the reception
room. I brought them there. Guess they'll be waking up any minute."

Other men in the laboratory were now beginning to sit up and stare.
Wearily, Wayne handed the diagram and notes to Grayson.

"This station should cover the Middle West. As soon as you can get in
touch with other stations, Cincinnati, Louisville, Montreal, and the
others, give them this dope. They'll be able to pass it on to stations
in _their_ range as soon as they're changed over. They can pass it on
east, west, north, and south. New York can reach Europe, and--"

He closed his eyes to rest them a moment, then felt a curious sensation
of limpness, relaxation flow over him. Grayson started for the control
room but before he reached the door, two figures appeared in it--a
short wiry man with sandy hair and beard, and a beautiful auburn-haired
girl.

Dr. Felder spotted Wayne immediately and rushed across to him. He
addressed him and when Wayne didn't move, didn't answer, the doctor
hurriedly felt his pulse, then peeled up an eyelid and examined the
pupil.

"Dad!" Marcia's voice was frantic. "Is he--"

Dr. Felder turned and looked at her understandingly.

"He's all right, my dear. And he'll be all right if we take him home
and give him care and intravenous feeding. But"--the doctor chuckled
softly--"I'm afraid that the damper wave that will keep everyone else
normal has finally made him sleep. He's in for a ten-weeks' stretch of
it, until the comet's gone and we can convert the transmitters back to
normal."

***