Felder's eyes widened in amazement. "You mean you're _that_ Randall?
The chap Opdycke wrote a monograph about, and about whom Gneiss wrote a
whole chapter in his _Anatomy of Sleep_? And that Leowenstein--"

Wayne nodded.

"When I was a kid back in Oshkosh my parents took me to a good many
medicos. They sent me to New York for study. I got write-ups all over
the country. Then it died down, and they let me alone a while. In
college, I was discovered all over again. Once more they tried to make
me into a guinea pig. And after college--"

"You disappeared," finished Dr. Felder accusingly. "Why? Man, your
case is unique in medical annals! You're invaluable, but you simply
disappeared. Why?"

"Possibly, Father," volunteered the girl, "Mr. Randall didn't _want_ to
be a guinea pig."

Wayne smiled at her gratefully. It wasn't hard to smile at Marcia
Felder.

"That's about the size of it, Miss Felder," he stated. "People looked
at me as a sort of freak. A person who didn't even know what sleep was,
rather frightened them. I had to conceal my identity in order to be
accepted by other people and to have friends. I've been living under an
assumed name ever since my parents died."

"Hmmm." Dr. Felder looked thoughtful. "Yes, I can see that. What have
you been doing with yourself since then?"

"For a while I held two jobs, so I'd have only eight hours a day to
kill. Then I got interested in radio and built myself a short-wave set.
Got so interested, in fact, that I gave up my night job so I'd have
plenty of time to experiment."

"Ever feel tired?"

Wayne shook his head energetically.

"Not a bit, ordinarily. Of course if I do a lot of physical work, my
muscles feel slightly weary. But a few hours of rest every couple of
days, just sitting still, rests them up. And my brain--well, it doesn't
even need that."

"Quite understandable. It is doubtful if the brain of a normal human
ever completely rests. During sleep, it dreams. The mind goes on,
but it is divorced from sensual contact with reality through normal
nerve impulses, and imagines its own pseudo-impulses in order to--But
the puzzling thing about your case, of course, is the ability of your
muscles to revive without sleep.

"But I'm forgetting my duty as a host. Let's go into my office where we
can sit down. Come along, Marcia, if you wish. That is, Mr. Randall, if
you don't mind. You see, my daughter helps me in my work."

Wayne smiled assent. It would be better, he thought, to have Marcia
Felder interested in him as an abnormal specimen, than not at all.

"My reason for coming to see you, Doctor," Wayne explained when they
were seated in the office, "is that I've read about your new anesthetic
you developed, novether. Do you think it would make me unconscious? All
other known anesthetics have failed."

Dr. Felder knitted his fingers together and pondered.

"If I recall correctly the verdict of the doctors who studied you, the
consensus was that you are a mutant, that the mutation consists of the
restoration to activity of a gland of which man's ancestors lost the
use, somewhere in the evolutionary scale, when they formed the habit of
sleep."

Wayne nodded agreement.

"Many lower animals, of course, don't sleep. Their glands secrete into
the blood something which renews cells of the vasomotor mechanism.
Forms of life which got the habit of hibernating during certain hours
of the day or night gradually became more and more torpid during those
periods. The dendrites learned to contract in an ameboid manner,
shutting off the mind from nerve impulses. The gland became vestigial
or was lost through lack of use, because the cells formed the habit of
using this period of torpor for refreshment and--"

He broke off with a grin.

"But here I am lecturing someone who knows a thousand times more about
anatomy than I do. Forgive me, Doctor."

"Nothing to forgive. Your statement was correct, if not technically
expressed. But why do you wish to be anesthetized?"

Wayne leaned forward eagerly.

"Curiosity, Doctor. No other anesthetic does any more to me than make
my head buzz a trifle. I'd like to sleep just _once_, out of sheer
cussed curiosity to find out what it's like. I'd give anything to
be unconscious just for a moment. To me it would be as momentous an
experience as--as going to the moon would be to you!"

Dr. Felder wavered between a frown and a smile.

"Unethical, of course. But you've got me curious, too. If no other
anesthetic has worked--Well, take off your shirt and lie down on the
table over there. Marcia, get the machine."

Ten minutes later there was amazement on Dr. Felder's face as he lifted
the cone and signaled Marcia to stop the machine. Wayne's eyes, wide
open, stared up at him.

"You felt nothing at all?" Dr. Felder asked, completely incredulous. "I
gave you enough novether to knock out a herd of elephants!"

Wayne sat up and grinned ruefully.

"Well, there's a slight ringing in my ears, if that's any satisfaction.
I guess Rackam's comet would have to hit me to make me unconscious." He
reached for his shirt. "By the way, Doctor, do you agree with the other
scientists that the comet gasses won't have any effect on conditions
here, on the atmosphere, I mean?"

The little doctor looked up from his recording of the data on the
experiment.

"Atmosphere's still normal," he observed. "We are in the outer
fringe of the tail now. But one of my instruments has noted a slight
electrical disturbance of a peculiar nature."

His eyes held a mild puzzlement as Marcia reappeared in the doorway
after wheeling the novether machine back into the lab.

"I've asked the cook to send us in some coffee," she told them. She
smiled at Wayne. "I hope it won't keep you awake, Mr. Randall."

Wayne laughed appreciatively at the joke--and promptly pushed the comet
out of his mind.

It was almost midnight when he left the Felders. Marcia--he hoped she
had maneuvered it deliberately--escorted him to the door alone.

"You'll come to see us again, won't you?" she invited as she offered
her hand.