It was on the bus, homeward bound, that Wayne first noticed it. There
seemed to be an unusual degree of sleepiness among the people about
him. In fact, everyone on the bus looked almost as if they were
drugged, so soundly were they slumbering. The driver yawned frequently,
and shook his head, presumably to help him stay awake.

Suddenly Wayne remembered Dr. Felder's trouble with his guinea pigs.
They, too, had difficulty staying awake. Could there be any connection
between them and the unseemly drowsiness of these people seated about
him? He remembered now that the Felders, too, had seemed tired. And
that when Marcia had gone for more coffee, she had joked about the fact
that the cook had been sound asleep in the kitchen.

Back in his own quarters, Wayne was restless, unreasonably disturbed.
His short-wave set was almost completely dismantled in the process
of trying a new idea of his in combined radio-audio frequency
amplification. It would take all night to get it working again, he
thought, and somehow he couldn't get himself started at the task this
evening.

Abruptly he grabbed his hat and went out into the almost deserted
Chicago streets. On Michigan Boulevard he caught a cruising taxicab
with a sleepy driver.

"Where's the best night spot?" Wayne asked impatiently.

The driver pondered, rubbed his eyes tiredly.

"Most of 'em are closing early tonight, mister. Not many customers,
for some reason. Air's muggy or something and people all seem to wanna
go home. The 601 Club's still open though. Or was half hour ago." His
mouth gaped into an enormous yawn. "Take ya there?"

His mind seething with possibilities, Wayne climbed into the cab. Could
it be that--

The 601 Club was dark.

"'Sfunny," drawled the taxi driver sleepily. "Never knew this joint
to close before six in the mornin'. And it's only two. What-ta night.
Heck, wish I could knock off early myself. Back home, mister?"

Wayne shook his head slowly, and his face became grimly resolute.

"If you can stay awake, pal, take me to the office of the Chicago
_Blade_."

Ten minutes later he dropped his hat on a corner of the night editor's
desk.

"Your gang sleepy tonight?" Wayne asked sharply, an undertone of
excitement in his voice.

The editor looked at him incuriously and nodded.

"Me too. So what? We get out a paper anyway. What you want?"

Wayne gripped the edge of the desk and leaned forward, his body tense.

"Listen, this is important. _Everybody_--in Chicago at least--is
abnormally sleepy tonight. Every night club in town is closed for lack
of customers. Even the regulars went home to bed. And you should see
the people who have to be out whether they want to or not."

The man's eyes opened wider.

"You sure? Say, that would mean--"

"The comet," snapped Wayne tersely. "The astrophysicists said it
wouldn't have any effect, but they could have been wrong. We're in the
fringe, and--"

The editor, with a visible effort, straightened up.

"Mister, if this is an exclusive, you'll get paid for the tip-off. What
a story!"

Wayne smiled grimly.

"And what bank would I cash the check at, with all the tellers asleep?
This is serious, I tell you! It might mean the end of the human race!
If those gasses of the comet's tail--"

The editor grabbed a phone with unsteady hands.

"Hey, George," he barked into the mouthpiece, "put the whole staff
on this. Have them call New York, Frisco, Los Angeles. Have them ask
whether...."

A tired-looking reporter shuffled in, and leaned against the desk.

"Say, Bill," he said sluggishly, after the editor had replaced the
receiver, "there's an epidemic of people driving cars off the roads and
into poles and what-not tonight, like they fell asleep at the wheel.
Want me to do a feature on it?" He caught the horror-stricken eyes of
the editor and snapped out of his lethargic stance. "What's up?"

Wayne's eyes narrowed and he leaned again across the desk.

"That proves it," he exclaimed excitedly. "No need to wait for the
answers to those calls. We know what they'll be. Let's get going."

The editor's face was pale, and now he could scarcely control the
trembling of his hands.

"But what can we do?" he asked distraughtly.

"Call the observatories," snapped Wayne. "Wake up some physicists and
get new air tests. Find out where whatever gas masks this country has
are kept. Blast it, man, call the President!..."

The hands of the clock stood at three-ten. Crowded into the editor's
office and overflowing out into the corridor was the entire staff of
the _Blade_. The editor wiped sweat off his bald head and looked at
them dazedly.

"Okay," he said. "I've been through to the White House. The President's
declaring a state of emergency, whatever good that'll do. We've learned
gas masks won't do any good. We've learned the air is one hundred
percent normal. We've learned this thing is world-wide. Now on those
other calls some of you've made--anybody got anything?"

"I got Ramsey, the biologist, Chief," one of the reporters volunteered.
"He spotted something before we did. Been dissecting rabbits and stuff
since midnight. Says something about dendrites. Want me to read his
statement?"

The editor nodded, his facial muscles twitching uncontrollably.

"He said, 'Conscious co-operation of mind and body depends on
neighboring nerve units being in contact with one another so nerve
impulses can pass from neuron to neuron to reach the brain. In sleep
the dendrites retract and separate, and the result is unconsciousness.
Some influence whose nature we do not yet understand is causing the
nerve dendrites of earth's mammalian life to retract, bringing sleep.
The action is not chemical, as air is normal. It may be electrical
although we have yet found nothing to indicate that is the case. The
effect, however, is not lethal."

Someone drew a sharp sigh of relief.

"Not lethal! And here I thought I wouldn't have to finish paying for my
helicopter." A murmur of amusement rippled through the crowd and helped
to relieve some of the tension. But some of the men noticed that their
chief had remained unmoved.

"S'matter, Bill?" one of them asked. "It won't hurt to sleep a day or
so. Gosh, the way I feel now, I could--"

Wayne answered the question, his voice flat and gray.

"A day or so? We've checked the observatories, can't you understand?
That comet is rounding the sun in the same direction as Earth, and in
the same plane. We'll be within the comet's tail for two and a half
months. And the world will starve to death in its sleep!"

A thunderbolt silence struck the room.

"Maybe it isn't the comet," someone ventured presently.

But there was no conviction in the voice. What hope was there that it
wasn't? Nothing like this had ever happened before. But now it was
happening exactly coincidental with the fact that Earth was entering
the tail of Rackam's comet.

Suddenly the night editor galvanized into action.

"Hey, you guys, we're getting out a paper here. An extra at that! Get
busy. Stop moping! You, Callahan, write--"