He had set up a simple generator whose output could be graduated
between 70 and 100 volts. I lay down on a table, and he and Burke
attached two rubber pads faced with copper to my temples, as the
electrodes.

Dixon repeated his final instructions.

"At the slightest crook of your finger we'll cut the current, Ellis. If
you feel any dangerous sensations, don't hesitate."

He called, then, "All right, Burke--the switches."

"I feel more like an executioner than a scientist," Burke growled.

The generator was already humming. Dixon fed the current so weakly at
first that I could feel only a tingle in my nerves.

"It'll take more than that," I told him, grinning.

He jumped his rheostats a little. The tingling in my nerves and brain
became much stronger.

I felt an odd, dizzy sensation. It got more pronounced as Dixon let me
have the current in stronger and stronger jolts.

The whole laboratory seemed to dim around me, even Dixon's dark,
watchful face blurring to my eyes.

For a moment, I felt panic. After all, there _was_ something gruesome
about trying temporarily to dissociate my mind from my body!

Dixon's voice came through the blur.

"All right, Ellis?" he asked.

Pride made me conquer my panic.

"Go ahead," I murmured.

[Illustration: "Go ahead," I murmured from the table, for pride had
made me conquer my terror.]

All consciousness of bodily sensation vanished in a whirling blur as
the jolts of current came faster and faster. I had a ghastly sensation
of _freedom_.

Can freedom be terrible? Freedom from your own body can--at least at
first. That was what I was feeling.

I seemed to float in a whirling, throbbing haze. Then my strange
sensations cleared a little.

I was still in the laboratory. But now I was floating several feet
above the table and the limp body of Fred Ellis!

I couldn't see, or hear, or use any other ordinary bodily sense. Yet
I _felt_ my surroundings as clearly as though I saw them, by means of
unguessable senses in my immaterial being.

I was still I, but somehow it was now a different "I." I felt connected
to the limp form of Fred Ellis below me only by a tenuous thread.

Dazed, bewildered by the change, as I hovered there I sensed a sudden
clear question from close by.

"Has your host died, comrade?"

I didn't hear that, and it wasn't in words. It was in thought or
thought-force that I automatically received.

In the same way, I was conscious now of another immaterial being like
myself hovering close to me. He couldn't be seen, any more than I
could, but he was there. And he was completely free, not connected as
I was to a lax human body.

"Has your host died?" he asked again.

Dazedly, without realizing what I said, I answered in thought.

"No, he is not dead. I am still linked to him."

"_Have you been here long, comrade?_" came the question. "I am Klon,
and I am newly-come from Aarl."

Aarl? That name was like a trigger in my hovering mind, unloosing a
strange dim flood of memory.

"I am T'Shal, and I came from Aarl ages ago," I exclaimed. "Only now do
I remember! There is horror here--"

_Crash!_

It all ended suddenly. I was Fred Ellis, dazedly opening my eyes on the
table. The thunderous crash had been merely the click of a switch.

"Ellis?" Dixon was sweating as he chafed my wrists. "Ellis, are you all
right?"

I stared at him in a frozen fashion.

"You brought me back into my body?"

"And just in time, I'd say!" exclaimed Burke. "You were in a ghastly
coma--I insisted we cut it short."

Dixon had seized eagerly on my words. "You mean, you were really out of
your body? Your mind was free for those moments?"

"Only partly free," I mumbled. "I was still linked to it. But even so,
I was just beginning to remember something--"