Again, my senses blurred. The laboratory swam about me, I was whirling
through dimness.

The pressure of the jolting current mounted and mounted. I felt an
intolerable sense of strain--then a sharp, sudden release.

I was completely free of Fred Ellis' limp body now! I, T'Shal the
Aarlan, who had inhabited Ellis' body for thirty Earth years!

"Comrade, is it you again?" I recognized instantly the mental voice of
Klon, who had said he was newly-come from Aarl.

From Aarl? Memory began to rush over me, memory that was
heartbreakingly vivid.

I remembered Aarl! I remembered our world of supernal beauty and
splendor that lay far, far across the cosmos from this drab, heavy
little world Earth.

Aarl, world not of solid matter but of free electrons, floating like
a glorious sphere of light in the glare of a great white sun! Aarl,
wondrous globe of ever-shifting color, light and beauty!

And I was an Aarlan! I was one of the race that had evolved there as
individual, intelligent photon-groups--immaterial photon-beings living
immortally in our radiant, ethereal world!

"Comrade, I sense your trouble of spirit!" came the cry of Klon. "What
is wrong?"

"You have just come from Aarl, you say?" I cried. "You must go back
there, back to Aarl before you are trapped on this world!"

"Are you mad, comrade?" he asked wonderingly. "Why should I leave when
I have come to gather new experiences on this world?"

To gather new experiences? Yes, that was the passion of all us immortal
Aarlans. For ages, beating our way out through the cosmos on streams of
light, we had visited other worlds. We had entered the bodies of their
material creatures and had lived there with them in peaceful symbiosis,
garnering many rich new experiences.

And that was why we had come to this planet Earth, long ago. How well
I remembered now that I, T'Shal, had been one of that very band of
Aarlans who first had visited this planet!

"This world Earth must yield fascinating experiences," Klon was saying.
"For no Aarlan who came here has ever yet returned."

"You do not understand!" I cried. "When we came here first, we picked
a species of ape-creature as the most suitable symbiotic partners and
entered their brains in the usual way. We intended only our customary
temporary stay.

"But we were disastrously entrapped! This ape-species has no
true intelligence, but they have instincts of surpassing nervous
intensity--instincts of greed and lust and hatred. And that bestial
nervous influence warped the symbiosis we intended, distorted our own
intelligence, inhibited our thinking until we forgot all about Aarl!

"Yes, we forgot Aarl, forgot our own identities and thought of
ourselves only as the minds of these ape-like creatures! And each of
us, when his symbiotic partner died, remained so dazed and drugged that
he merely drifted on to another ape-host, another partner."

Klon's horrified thought came. "But then why is it that you are able to
remember now, T'Shal?"

"Because the shock of force that released me from my ape-host dissolved
the inhibiting effect and made full memory return to me!" I told him.

"What are we to do?" cried Klon. "Always, we have supposed that
symbiosis with these Earth-creatures must be richly rapturous, since
no Aarlan ever returned from here. Aarlans have come here in millions
for that reason, and more will come!"

"No more must come!" I told him. "You and I will return at once to Aarl
to warn all our race of the horrible trap of Earth. At least we will be
able to prevent any more of our race from coming here."

I added, "And before we leave, I will make an effort to save all the
millions of us who remain trapped here in the dazing symbiosis with the
ape-creatures. If I could make them all remember their true identity,
they might be able to break free of this bondage."