They will be condemning Doctor Dixon's experiment, by now. He'll be
blamed for what happened to me. The newspapers will yelp, "Young
Scientist Loses Mind As Result of Rash Experiment!"

They will be wrong. I didn't lose my mind. It would be much truer to
say that my mind lost _me_.

Let me go back. I was Fred Ellis, thirty years old, instructor in
psychology at Midwestern University. At least, that's who I thought I
was!

Doctor Francis Dixon, head of our department, was a dark, keen,
brilliant man who was out of place in those poky classrooms. But he and
John Burke, the assistant professor, carried on much private research.

Dixon's work was usually way over my head. His ideas were brilliant,
if unconventional. Burke, a blond young giant with a strong faculty
of imagination, understood him better than I did. I was the plodding,
patient type of scientist, I'm afraid.

But I intensely admired Dixon and listened with deep interest to his
theories and suggestions. One night, talking with Burke, he came out
with the most daring suggestion of all.

Burke had made the trite remark that "mind is just a function of the
physical body, after all."

"How do we know it is?" Dixon demanded. "All good little modern
psychologists repeat that, but how do we know? It may be that mind and
body are wholly different individual entities."

Burke gaped at him. "But that's going back to old-fashioned nonsense.
How could mind and body be different entities?"

"Ever go deep-sea fishing?" Dixon asked him unexpectedly.

"Fishing?" repeated Burke.

"Down off Florida you catch big sharks and sea-bass that have remoras,
or sucker-fish, a foot long solidly attached to their sides. The remora
is part of the shark, yet they're different entities.

"Termites have flagellates in their body who digest the wood the
termites eat. Leguminous plants live in mutually profitable partnership
with nitrogen-fixing bacteria, the plants fixing carbon and the
bacteria nitrogen."

"I'm not a sophomore," Burke said a little resentfully. "You can
mention symbiosis without defining it for me."

Dixon laughed.

"All right, I'm talking about symbiosis--the ability of two entirely
different species of creatures to live in closest conjunction, one
inside or attached to the body of the other."

He lighted a cigarette and looked at us.

"Suppose the mind and body also are two different species of living
creatures, two _utterly_ different species, living together in
symbiosis?"