Dave Crandall flew his helicopter towards Merion, wondering how things
were going. His job was done. He, too, was finished. There was no
return. Not that Dave felt any great urge to return; doubtless there
was something he could find to do in this half-world that would let him
go on working. He would have to contact them and have them ship him
groceries, cigarettes, and water. But there were many things that a man
could do here.

He thought about Jane, and his heart softened for a moment. This was
just as well, however. She would forget him, while he had no future
worth thinking about. Only hard work, partly because he liked activity,
partly because it kept him from brooding about the date of his certain
death.

A wonderful woman, Jane Nolan; one not to be hurt by fate's little
tricks. But so long as he was here, she--

The crystal he had in his pocket flashed brilliantly, penetrating the
cloth and lighting up the cabin of the helicopter. At once, Dave felt
the hard matter of the seat grow tenuous, and there was a bare instant
of sliding resistance, like the feeling of plunging a foot into the
shifting sand of a beach. Then the helicopter disappeared and Dave felt
himself falling.

"Damned unmitigated liar!" growled Dave. Then he crashed into a tree
and lost consciousness.

Dave meant the pilot who swore that there was no return to the real
world.

He opened his eyes and groaned. He tried to move and found that he
could not. He might as well be covered up to the eyebrows in concrete.

He looked around and saw a crowd of people watching him.

"Welcome home."

"But--?"

"I owe you an apology." Dave looked and saw President Morgan.

"Apology?"

"I got too tough with them. They flashed you back while you were flying
the helicopter. You're banged up a little."

"Nothing that can't be repaired," said Doctor Meteridge cheerfully. "A
beautiful case. Fractures of the tibia, fibula, radius and ulna on
one side, humerus and clavicle on the other. Bruises and a couple of
abrasions. Nothing serious."

"David," said President Morgan, "a grateful people is waiting for your
convalescence so that we can show you our appreciation."

"Yes," said Jane. "Get well. We all have plans for you!"

Dave tried to shake his head. "No, Jane. Doc'll tell you. Six months--"

"You can't escape me that easily," said Jane. "While you're all
neatly immobilized in that plaster cast, we are using their machine
to separate out the widespread specks of fission products that were
killing you. Just a matter of tuning critically so that it will send
certain isotopes into the half-world instead of the whole human being.
So by the time you get off your back, we'll have you healthy again and
then, Dave Crandall, just you think up another excuse!"

"Pick on a guy when he's down," grumbled Dave. He was laughing, then,
but the room blurred through the tears in his eyes.