ONE

                          The Shape of Danger


They looked at the crystal in horror.

It was the horror of the serpent, or of the Gorgon's head. They were
fascinated; in that moment not one of them could have torn his gaze
away. All work ceased. The noises in the concrete-walled room died
until the whish of breathing and the thumping of hearts could be
heard.

Then panic caught them, and fought against training. Panic cried,
_Run!_ and training said, _Remove yourself quickly._

With the motion-saving efficiency of the emergency drill, each man
turned from his position and walked rapidly towards whichever exit was
nearest.

Actually, they could not outrun the danger any more than one can duck
a rifle bullet or outrace the atomic bomb. But they went, five men and
one woman, out through the zigzag corridors towards a mirage of safety.

One man remained.

Dave Crandall stepped forward and picked the crystal from its place
in the evaporation dish. He turned, doused hand and crystal under
a faucet, and then dropped the crystal on an anvil. He hit it with
a heavy hammer. Anvil and crystal rang musically, and the crystal
rebounded and flew through the air unharmed.

Cursing under his breath, Dave Crandall darted, picked it up again, and
looked around wildly.

There were vats of acid handy; an electronic furnace glowed white-hot
through its slit; a tunnel gaped unexcitingly but in its depths were
the invisible radiations of the atomic pile. None of these would work
soon enough.

Dave turned to the desk. He flipped open the end of the pneumatic
message tube and popped the crystal into the chamber. There was the
_whroooom!_ of pumped air, a few tinkles as the crystal hit the sides
of the tube on its way down.

Then from somewhere outside the concrete-walled room came the awesome
blast. The wave-front traveled down the zigzag passages and Dave
thought he could almost see it. The roar deafened him.

Dave went out through the zigzag passage.

A mile across the plain, a billowing white cloud was rising.

Claverly greeted Dave. Claverly was a bit shaken, and more than a
little abashed. "The relay station," he said, pointing at the rising
cloud.

"Oh?" remarked Crandall. He asked, frowning, "Anybody in there?"

"No."

Crandall smiled wryly. "That's a relief," he said. "But I didn't
have time to ask where that tube went. I might have blown up the
administration building."

Claverly laughed. "About all you've done is to cut a large hole in the
coast-to-coast pneumo," he said. "No jury in the world would convict
you."

DeLieb came around from the other side of the building. "There," he
said, "but for the Grace of God--" pointing at the billowing pillar of
smoke. "Thanks, Dave. This makes you unique, you know."

"Unique?"

"You are the only living man who has seen one of those devils' rocks in
operation."

"We were all there," objected Dave, "and how about the Manhattan
Crystal?"

"In the first place, the Manhattan Crystal is furnishing New York with
electrical power--from a generating plant twenty miles outside New
York, telemeter-controlled, and completely unattended. Montrose and
Crowley and their associates who first made the crystal went up trying
to reproduce it at Brookhaven. So did Brookhaven. Harvard, Purdue,
Caltech, and Argonne went up trying to make one, too."

"But you were there, too, and you've seen it."

DeLieb nodded. "It is a six-sided crystal about three inches long, with
a pyramidal point at either end, and about three-quarters of an inch
across the hexagonal flats. It is clear with a trace of blue tint. So
much we know, Dave. _But what shape was it when you tossed it into the
tube?_"

"Cubical, and full of flashing red glints," said Dave.

"And why were we suddenly scared bright green?"

"Because it began to change shape before our eyes," said Dave.

"And it was still fluid when we--left."

"I think so," said Dave uncertainly.

DeLieb turned and went into the laboratory again, with the others
following. He inspected the anvil and straightened up with a wry smile.
There was the dent on the soft iron, made by the crystal under Dave's
blow. "That," said DeLieb, "is the impact of a hexagonal crystal
slightly distorted. A hexagonal form half-changed to a cubical shape.
So, Dave Crandall, you are the only man alive to have seen such a
crystal. Who knows the shape of the Manhattan Crystal by now?"