Dave stopped to think.

Clearly, the exploding crystal was as dangerous on this side as it was
on the other. That meant that no one could stand close by and watch the
thing to be sure of which physicists they got--unless they used some
sort of television hookup.

So Dave retraced his steps to the laboratory and inspected it. He
saw nothing, and so began to feel his way through the walls of the
building. He became engrossed in this job; it was both interesting and
a bit terrifying to go walking through walls and feeling along the
insides of beams and rafters. The building was a sort of thick phantom.
Not only were the walls transparent, but the pipe lines, electrical
wiring, nails, and other normally hidden bits of construction were
visible within them. And walking along the length of a wall with a
shoulder on either side, one in one room and one in the other, was
disconcerting as well as amusing.

The heavy concrete-block walls, set up for radiation barriers, were
wider than Crandall's shoulder-spread, and he could walk through their
length completely enclosed in the hard concrete. Here it was eerie,
too, for encased in the concrete were electrical wires and pipes, to
Dave no heavier than the concrete through which he walked, but none the
less clearly visible.

So Dave inspected the remote lab, walking down the walls and through
the pipes and wires that stretched through the house like a spider's
web, and he saw no evidence of espionage--

--until he caught his throat under a wire that should have been as
tenuous as the others, but which almost throttled him.

Dave bounded back, clutching at his throat and swearing soundly.

Then he realized!

And forgetting his throat, Dave followed the wire to one of the remote
video and audio sets. He pulled it aside--and it split into two
complete sets! There were two television cameras, identical in every
way, one in Dave's world, one in the everyday world, placed in perfect
register!

His proof!

His friends had gone; obviously back to their laboratory to prepare
another crystal. Here he could get one: their next one. Then he could
communicate with them and start planning a counter-offensive.

Dave looked across the plain towards the main laboratory building, and
shrugged. If he had a crystal now, all he could do would be to let them
know he was alive and on the job, but had no information. On the other
hand, he had fouled up the television camera in the remote lab, and it
seemed likely that there would be a repairman coming along to see what
was wrong.

Just where Claverly and Phelps were in this mess Dave didn't know.
But he assumed that soon after their projection into this cockeyed
half-world, the enemy had come along to collect them both.

Dave blinked at a sudden fantastic thought: would the flashing of a
crystal send him back to his own world, or toss him along into another
one?

An interesting thought--to be pursued later. Right this moment the
thing to do was to lie doggo until the enemy arrived to take Dave in
tow. This time, instead of a baffled scientist, they were attempting to
catch a gent who was more interested in being alive than in figuring
out where he was.

Had Dave been a pure scientist, he would have been amazed and baffled
by this half-world. The whys and wherefores would have bothered him to
the exclusion of other considerations, and he would have been standing
there trying to figure it all out when the enemy came along to collect
him. Instead, Dave was still alive, or felt that he was, and that was
enough for him. Someone else could figure out how and why; his was the
line of action; so long as he was able, he was going to continue to
live and fight.

So when the helicopter dropped down out of the sky near the remote
laboratory and disgorged a man carrying a rifle, Dave, the quarry, was
sprawled behind a slight ridge in the half-world's terrain, watching
through a cleft in the stone outcrop.