One may also see this fragile thread of life running back into Julie’s
babyhood, mothered by her delicate and shrinking mother, and fathered
by her big blustering father. Those were the days when Mr. Rose kept a
small shop in the village, and when Julie’s earliest baby recollections
were concerned with the many-colored things in the shop, and the
mingled smell of raisins, tobacco, and peppermint candy, together with
the dreadful tradition that a witch lived in the ginger-cake barrel,
ready to snap out at a little girl who even so much as thought of
helping herself in passing. That appeared to be the reason for their
being called ginger-snaps.

But big and boastful as her father was, he was not a success at
storekeeping, and by the time little Julie was five or six, her mother
was taking table boarders “to help out.” She had been a school-teacher
from one of the smaller cities in Virginia, and had trained herself to
a rather prim mode of speech. Julie usually spoke as she did, but in
moments of stress she was apt to break away to the mountain phraseology
of her father’s people.

Julie’s father boasted largely of the things he meant to do in the
business way, but always as the table boarders increased, the customers
in the shop decreased, until finally, when Julie was ten or eleven, the
shop was closed altogether, and her father had gone across the State
line into West Virginia, to work in the lumber camps. There he made
good money, for people said that Emmet Rose was a mighty fine hand in
the woods; and he himself bragged that he could drop a tree within a
foot of any spot he named. Thereafter, with the money coming regularly
from the lumber camp, Mrs. Rose gave up most of the table boarders, and
so had leisure to do fancy sewing, and to make pretty, sober little
clothes for Julie. The stitches in them were exquisite and sincere,
but she never dressed Julie in bright colors. “No, I don’t like bright
colors,” she was wont to say.

“But why, mother? Why?” Julie questioned.

“They’re so gay--” her mother hesitated; “I--I don’t know, but someway
I don’t think they’re respectful to the Lord.”

Thereafter Julie went in fear of a jealous surveillance from on high.
God became somewhat confused in her child mind with a chicken hawk.
“Grandmaw Rose,” who had a little farm on the top of Slatty Mountain,
said she didn’t hold with white chickens: they was too easy a mark
for the hawk. This seemed to accord with her mother’s fear of bright
colors. Apparently, up there in the wide stretches of the deep sky
that Julie had always liked, there lurked a terrifying Power that
might pounce dreadfully at any moment. Evidently the safest way to get
through life was to slip by as unnoticed as possible, clad, if one were
a chicken, in speckled gray feathers that faded easily from sight in
the grass; or; if one were a little girl, ordering one’s self in the
same humble and unobtrusive manner.

Julie felt worried about her father, there was so little of the
discreet coloration about him. His necktie, when he wore one, could be
seen half a mile, an easy mark for hawk or deity. His friends described
him as a great big two-fisted Jim-bruiser of a man. He was boastful
and loud, and would come roaring down the river with the log drives in
spring, boisterous, gay, and apparently unafraid. During the summer
months, when he was in Hart’s Run, their reserved little house rocked
with his Homeric laughter, accompanying great stories of “Tony Beaver”
who lives up “Eel River,”--where all the impossible things of the West
Virginia lumber camps happen,--who is blood brother to “Paul Bunyan”
of the Northern woods and who owns a yoke of oxen so big it takes a
crow a week to wing the distance between the horns of one of them. But
just because of his recklessness and daring laughter, Julie adored her
father. Those were good days on the whole--her mother and herself snug
and well provided for in the village, building up a gentle home-life,
with the lumber-jack’s big personality off in the woods to roof it over
securely.

But when Julie was sixteen, this period came to an abrupt end on a
day in the woods, when a tree which Emmet Rose was felling failed to
drop on the spot he had named, but fell instead upon him. They brought
him home, out of the woods, to Hart’s Run--a painful journey--by way
of tram cars and rough frozen roads with ice and skifts of snow in
the ruts, with Sam Fletcher, who drove, feeling in his own body every
dreadful jolt of the wagon; for, as he confided to his intimates,
if there was one thing he did naturally _de_spise, it was haulin’ a
crippled hand out of the woods.

Julie and her mother were dazed by the shock. Their scared faces fell
into a mould of horror that did not lighten or relax when they spoke
or even when they tried to smile. Their little hands shook, but they
went on and did things efficiently and bravely. Emmet Rose watched them
sadly out of his big face that was gaunt and curiously stretched with
pain to a wider apprehension. Once when her mother was out of the room,
he put out his uninjured hand to Julie and spoke darkly.

“It’s got me. I allus knew it would.”

Julie’s heart jumped violently. “What’s got you, pappy, honey?” she
questioned, putting her hand in his.

“Life,” he answered. “It’s got me down at last. I allus knew it would.
It gits every feller in the end. I stood up aginst it an’ fought it
like a two-fisted man, but it’s got me, an’ now I’ll jist have to lay
down on you women-folks. Don’t tell mammy--she’s scary enough anyhow.”

This admission was the climax of terror to Julie. She had always
sheltered in her father’s loud confidence. To have him broken in body
was frightful enough; to see his broken spirit laid bare, to know that
always that sinister dread had lurked in the back of his mind, and that
all his big bluster was just a cloak for it, seemed to take the roof
from over her head, leaving her uncovered in a bleak world. Her heart
beat so fearfully that the thin material of her blouse fluttered up and
down. Nevertheless, she put her other hand, cold as it was, steadfastly
over her father’s. “Never mind, pappy, honey!” she said. “Never mind.
We’ll manage someway.”

He looked dimly at her white face with the big eyes, and felt the
tremor of her fingers.

“Poor Julie,” he said. “Poor little Julie. I kind of hate to have life
git a-hold of you.”

But after all Emmet Rose did not have to “lay down” long on his
women-folks. A broken rib had pierced one lung, pneumonia set in,
and five days after they brought him out of the woods his great body
was stiff and tenantless, and Julie and her mother, two terrified
little people, were left alone. Yet, for all their fear, with a
dogged pertinacity they rebuilt their lives and struggled on, like a
chess-player, who having lost his best piece still fights on with what
the game has left to him.

Later on, when death swooped again and her mother was gone, Julie,
frightened and alone, nevertheless rebuilt her life once more, and
went on spinning her web of existence, supported by dressmaking and
millinery which she had established in her father’s old shop, and
protected from being quite alone by Aunt Sadie Johnson who rented one
half of the house, and who was not Julie’s aunt at all, but was so old
a friend of her mother’s that Julie had always called her so.

This is the thread of Julie Rose’s life, running on narrow and timorous
lines back into the past to her birth in Hart’s Run, and forward into
the future, at the command of existence; and all along its pathway of
the past and future one may see her small figure faring forth, as she
weaves her strand in the pattern of humanity. All of it is of interest
and of value in that pattern, but for the sake of winding some of the
thread into a ball of narrative, one must pick it up definitely at
one point and break off at another; therefore, to begin, let us pick
it up on a June night in the summer of 1918, the year that Julie was
thirty-two.