It was two days afterward that Julie saw Mr. Bixby again. She knew his
name now. The _Hart’s Run News_ had announced that Mr. Timothy Bixby,
an expert printer and typesetter, had accepted the position left vacant
by the departure of Hobson Jones, who had left for Camp Lee to answer
his call to the colors. The _News_ added further, “We are glad to
welcome Mr. and Mrs. Bixby to our midst.”

So that woman was his wife after all.

Their next meeting occurred when Mr. Bixby made his way to Julie’s
little shop, sent by his wife to match some pink yarn for a sweater
she was knitting. It was just like her, Julie thought, to be knitting
a sweater for herself when all the rest of the women were at work on
khaki wool for the soldiers. And like her, too, to send her husband,
because she was ashamed to ask for it herself. Julie had time to
think of these things because she was busy at the hat counter with a
customer, and so had to let Maida Watkins, who sometimes helped her
out in the shop, wait on Mr. Bixby.

“_Pink_ wool?” Maida demanded sharply, her cold young eyes piercing
him, and her teeth snapping together on her chewing-gum. Maida had been
expressing superiority, leisure, and indifference, as she stood behind
the counter, ruminating slowly upon her gum, the while she patted her
blond hair from time to time, or examined her polished nails; but when
Mr. Bixby entered, and holding out the sample made his timid request,
she shot “_Pink_ wool” at him, and clenched her teeth so tight on her
gum that the muscles stood out on either side of her jaws. The color
swept up uncomfortably to his eyes, making his face look blurred and
helpless.

“Yes, marm, if you please, marm: to match this sample if you got it,”
he stammered.

“No, we ain’t got it,” Maida returned, not even deigning to glance at
the wisp of yarn he proffered. “It’s only pro-Germans would keep pink
wool these days,” she informed him. After which she returned to her
haughty mastication, staring away out of the window over his head.

It was here that Julie abruptly laid down the hat she had been
displaying and swept forward. She was animated by the same rage that
had assailed her before. As she passed Maida she glared at her. “Show
Miss Jenkins that sport hat,” she commanded; and Maida with a startled
and indignant toss of her blond puffs melted away to the obscurity of
the hat counter.

Julie reached the open door just as Mr. Bixby was starting out of it.

“I’m mighty sorry I haven’t got what you want, Mr. Bixby,” she said. “I
hope you’ll call again.”

At her words he turned, and there was a sudden leap of surprise, of
recognition, and of release in his eyes. For an instant they stood and
looked at one another, the storm-tossed personalities of each finding
a harbor and refuge in the being of the other. He spoke first. “I--I
didn’t know,” he stumbled. “Is this your shop?”

She nodded. “Yes, I live here.”

But now she knew that Maida was turning to ask her something about
the hat she held, and she hastily snatched up the momentarily dropped
mantle of conventionality.

“I’m mighty sorry we haven’t any pink wool, Mr. Bixby,” she repeated,
although she was aware that Maida was regarding her with outraged
contempt.

He replied with a sudden surprising twist of whimsicality, an
unexpected twinkle in his blue eyes.

“Oh, well,” he appealed, “ain’t it just like me to ask for pink wool a
war year? Ain’t it just the ornary kind of thing I would do?”

He spoke as though she knew him quite well, and would understand
perfectly all the small disasters to which he was prone.

“Oh, well,” she said, still offering consolation, “Of course, a man
couldn’t be expected to know how hard it is to get any kind of wool
these days. Why, the Red Cross Committee has even sent over to Winter’s
Gap to see if they can’t get some homespun. Winter’s Gap is in the back
part of the county away from the railroad, where some of the old folks
still spin,” she explained.

“Is that so?” he said with interest. People were not usually interested
in Julie’s small remarks. “Well, I reckon I must be going,” he added,
conscious now of Maida’s severe eyes upon them. He made an uncertain
gesture toward his hat and turned away. As he raised his arm, Julie
caught sight of a rip in his sleeve.

“I don’t see why in the name of goodness that woman can’t keep him
mended up!” her thoughts ejaculated angrily.