Carlin was the only one of the four hundred passengers on the "Larkoom"
who hated the star-ship and everything about it.

He was bored with the vessel and everyone aboard. A pack of chattering
idiots! For the hundredth time since leaving Canopus, he told himself
that he was a monumental fool to let that psychotherapist talk him into
this crazy trip.

A blond girl from Altair Four came tripping along the deck and favored
Laird Carlin with the bright smile that all the younger feminine
tourists had practised on the tall, dark, dour-looking young man.

[Illustration: The blonde from Altair Four favored the tall
dour-looking young man with a bright smile.]

"Oh, Mr, Carlin, the annunciators just said that we're only eight
hours from Sol. By night, we'll be on Earth! Isn't it thrilling?"

"Just what is thrilling about it?" Carlin asked sourly.

The girl was a little dumfounded. "Why, I mean, Earth! All the ancient
history we study in schools, about how men first came from there two
thousand years ago. Or was it twenty-one hundred?"

She prattled on, voicing all the appropriate clichés.

"Just think, all of us in this ship came from different stars and
worlds, yet long ago all our ancestors lived on that one little world
Earth. And they say it's still much the same as it was then. Isn't it
wonderful?"

Carlin could not see anything wonderful about it, and a little wearily
he said so.

The girl flushed in exasperation. "Then why are you going to Earth at
all?"

Why indeed, Carlin wondered savagely? Why the devil wasn't he back
on the other side of the galaxy where he belonged, supervising
establishment of the new star-ship line to Algol Six, spending his
leaves in Sun City with Nila?

Nila--he yearned for her, for her gay, mocking humor, her cool beauty,
her quick, clever mind. What was he doing here with a bunch of
bird-brained tourists who were conscientiously tripping for local color
to an old, forgotten world?

This whole part of the galaxy was a stagnant, half-dead area. This side
of Vega there weren't a score of suns with worlds of any importance.
And the old "Larkoom," a second-rate star-ship that couldn't make more
than eighty light-speeds, was plodding determinedly and monotonously on
into it.