The road was crazily illogical, winding westward along the woods-clad
ridge in serpentine fashion. It twisted accomodatingly to avoid big
boulders, a spring, a small gully.

The woods on either side was deplorably unkempt to Carlin's eyes. Big
and small trees jumbled together, saplings choking each other out, dead
brush and thorns and vines everywhere. There was even wild life in the
woods, furry rodents scuttling away, hosts of birds.

This sort of thing was what you expected on some unpeopled planet that
hadn't yet been pioneered and civilized. But Earth was the oldest
human-peopled world in the whole galaxy.

Yet Carlin had to admit that there were certain compensations here.
That winelike air was still an experience to him. And walking now came
more easily to his muscles here than on any world. It seemed odd to be
walking with such perfect ease, without wearing a de-grav.

He could not find the brook Marn had mentioned. He sat down on a log by
the roadside, musing on the drowsy, dull quiet of this place. There was
not a sound of human activity. Didn't these Earth people ever get bored
with the sleepiness of the place?

Carlin found he was still tired. He watched a small, brilliant insect
fluttering over a flower near by. Soft wind breathed through the ragged
woods, stirring the green leaves and making a dappled, dancing pattern
of sunlight on the ground. A distant bird called rustily.

"An old, outworn planet, dreaming," he thought. "These people, all of
them, living in its past."

Carlin finally got up stiffly, and lounged back along the road. He was
surprised to find that time had passed quickly, that the sun was now at
the zenith. And that, somehow, his taut nerves had relaxed.

The big workshop behind the house had its doors open now. He glanced
through them and was surprised to see that the cavernous room in there
was a fairly well-equipped atomic-engineering laboratory.

Interested, Carlin started toward it. In the center of the big room
he had glimpsed a towering, massive machine whose inner mechanism was
concealed by a cylindrical metal cover.

"Looks like it might be a big field-generator of some kind," he
muttered. "I wonder what it really is?"

There was a violent exclamation as an Earthman came running out from
behind the machine to block his entrance.

Carlin recognized the broad red face, angry eyes and stocky figure of
Loesser, the man who had argued with Jonny at the spaceport.

"What are you doing here?" Loesser demanded harshly.

Carlin was bewildered by his vehemence. "Why, I just wanted to take a
look at this machine."

"I thought so!" blazed Loesser, his eyes raging. "I told Jonny that was
why you came here!"

He snatched an object from his jacket pocket. To Carlin's thunderstruck
amazement, the object was a stubby atom-pistol that Loesser was
furiously leveling at him.