IX

                       _An Earthman Comes Home_


For the moment, none of them paid any attention to the fact that
precious copper was solidifying in the cooler coils into granules of
metal that were being blown into the bunkers. The real test was what
their beam of magnetic force was doing to the surface of the Sun.

Did it seem incredible, as it almost did to Carlin, that such a
fragile finger of force could in the least disturb the mighty orb
below? He knew better. He knew the unnaturally delicate balance of a
star's surface, which a slight change of pressure artificially induced
could stir into a whirl that would expand in giant Sun-spots. If that
happened, it would mean chaos.

"No sign of a whirl yet," Jonny breathed, peering down through black
glare-proof lenses. "No sign at all."

There was no moment of crisis, no clean-cut moment of triumph. There
was just the time speeding by, the flow of copper into the ship, and
the constant reports of Jonny--"No whirl forming yet."

Salvos shook the ship as the Control cruisers far outside the sun
glare fired more and more accurately. But they went unheeded. Success
or failure of the most audacious engineering exploit in the galaxy's
history hinged upon Jonny's muttered reports.

"No whirl yet."

Jonny Land finally raised his head, looked at them as they stood with
wild surmise on their faces.

"We've done it," he said, almost unbelievingly. "We've nearly filled
the bunkers with copper and there's no whirl down there, no disturbance
to grow into a spot. We've made Sun-mining possible."

Tears were running down Loesser's face. Harb Land looked dazed. But
Jonny walked across the hold to the wall through which the cooler coils
fed into the bunkers. He peered through a quartz view-plate.

They looked with him. The bunker rooms were heaped high with shining
red granules. Copper, virgin-pure, blown into the rooms and already
almost filling them. Copper milked from the Sun!

"Copper for Earth!" whispered Jonny, his thin face blazing now. "Power,
and new life, for the old planet!"

The "Phoenix" rocked wildly and metal screeched rendingly as they were
flung from their feet by a salvo that had finally bracketed the ship.

"The feed-pipes!" screeched Loesser, scrambling to his feet beside
Carlin.

Carlin saw. The ship's walls had held, but the shock had snapped
strained cables and cooler coils. Two intake tubes were giving way,
white-hot copper vapor forcing out through cracks in them.

"Veer-clamps on those two pipes!" yelled Jonny. "If they give,
everything goes!"

Knowledge of what it meant if the pipes gave way, if super-heated
metallic vapor blew out into the hold, flung Carlin in a crazy rush for
the Veer-clamps and wrenches.

He got a clamp around one of the pipes, and the man Vito started
spinning shut the bolts that would hold the fracture tightly. He swung
round toward the other pipe.

"Clamp!" yelled Jonny Land, in a cry that was like a hoarse howl of
agony.

Carlin's blood left his heart as he glimpsed the most horrible and
heroic sight he had ever beheld. The other strained tube had been
about to blow open, and Jonny Land had flung his arms around it and
was holding it together by agonized effort while the white-hot vapor
sprayed his body.

Harb Land wildly snatched his brother away as Carlin flung the big
clamp around the pipe and convulsively spun its bolts shut.

He staggered around then. Harb was bending over his brother.

"Jonny! Jonny!"

Jonny's whole chest and neck were blackened and blasted. His face was a
ghastly, sooted mask as his eyes looked up at them.

Another salvo went off close by, and again the "Phoenix" rocked wildly.

"Cut the dredge!" Carlin cried. "We've proved the process is
successful, and we can't stay here now or your brother will die!"

Loesser cut off the dredge and Harb Land rushed for the pilot room.
Carlin heard him shouting there into the communic:

"Control cruisers from 'Phoenix!' We're putting out to surrender. Be
ready to give injured man medical treatment."

"Break out of your orbit at once and we'll contact you for surrender by
locator when you're outside the corona," came the sharp, fast answer.