Control Court here in New York was only a small room in the building
by the spaceport. There were no officials in it except the three
middle-aged judges who sat behind a small table and prepared to pass
sentence on Laird Carlin and his seven comrades.

There were no lawyers, no oratory, no jurymen. They were not needed.
The government psychologists who had quietly questioned the accused men
during their four days in prison had submitted the factual hypnosis
records which were complete and incontrovertible evidence.

The chief judge, the man in the middle, quietly read the decision as
Carlin and the others faced him.

"This court is placed in a peculiarly difficult position in assessing
your offense. On the one hand, you men deliberately broke a Control
Council regulation and defied its officers. On the other hand, your
action has proved the practicability of a process of Sun-mining which
will be of incalculable value to this and every other System in the
galaxy.

"To forgive your offense because the ultimate result was good would be
to set a fatal precedent. It would establish the principle that illegal
means do not matter if end-purposes are good. We cannot permit such a
precedent to be established. Therefore, regretfully, this court must
pass the prescribed punishment for your offense."

Carlin could not deny the crystalline logic. He had known from the
first that this must be the issue, and he was too tired to care.

"You are sentenced to two years imprisonment in Rigel Prison and
also to the loss of your spacemen's licenses or Cosmic Engineer's
certificate, whichever you hold. Such sentence is obligatory in this
case." He added quickly, "It is, however, within our discretion to
suspend the prison term and to limit cancellation of your certificates
to one year from date. Such is the sentence of this court."

Loesser drew a gusty breath of relief. "For a minute, I thought it was
Rigel for us sure enough!"

The chief judge had risen. "Speaking personally," he added quietly, "we
would like to congratulate you men upon a great achievement."

Ross Floring came to their side.

"A year's suspension isn't long," he said, and Carlin nodded wearily.

When, with Harb Land's giant figure leading them, they emerged from the
building into the sunlight, a roar that deafened them came from the
waiting crowd outside. The people of Earth, at least, had no need to
temper their gratitude.

Harb was grimly silent as he pushed through the crowd toward Marn and
old Gramp Land. Carlin found himself buffeted by eager hands, assailed
by joyful faces and voices, as he followed.

A grizzled, excited man clapped his shoulder. "We Earthmen showed 'em
we could still conquer space, didn't we?"