Why was he doing it, breaking Control law and endangering his
certificate and even his liberty? Why under heaven should he be sharing
the risks of these men for a planet he hadn't even seen until a few
weeks ago?

"I must still be star-sick, unstable," he thought dismally. "Or I'd
never have got mixed up in this mad business. Sun-mining!"

Blind reaction was dominating him. Curse it, he wasn't the type to
join Quixotic forlorn hopes. He was Laird Carlin, sober, hard-working
engineer, who ought right now to be far across the galaxy at the job to
which he belonged.

And all the time Carlin's mind spun miserably to this whirl of
self-reproach and foreboding, he was working with Jonny at topmost
speed, squeezing into the frame of the great dredge where the lame
youngster could not go, fastening Veer-clamps, hooking self-sealing
leads to the flat Markheim filters.

The sound of ato-trucks rocked the noon air, and Harb Land came running
heavily into the workshop.

"I got the others--Loesser's bringing in the big truck now," panted
Harb. "What do you want us to do, Jonny?"

Loesser, and Vito, and the other four young Earthmen who came hastening
after Harb were dominated by excitement. Loesser's broad red face was
shining with emotion as he came up to Carlin.

"I want to apologize. I never thought any star-world stranger would
come in with us and help us."

"Save it, and get the welders on those rear feed-pipes," Carlin
retorted. "Get in here--I'll show you."

Through the hot afternoon hours, the hiss of ato-welders and reek of
fusing metal stifled the workshop.

Dripping with perspiration, stiff from cramped postures, Carlin worked
on inside the great dredge.

And all those hours, in rhythm with the welders' hiss and the clang of
wrenches, his thoughts beat a mocking tempo through his brain.

"All this, for no reason! For somebody else's world, a world that ought
to have been evacuated long ago! Even if it succeeds, you win nothing.
And if it fails, the Sun licks you all up like midges."

Yet he labored blindly on. It might be crazy, but what he had started,
he would finish.

It was work against an inexorable time limit that rapidly was
approaching. As the shadows lengthened, as the sun went down, they
still had not finished.

Jonny Land limped unsteadily to turn on the workshop lights. His face
was a gray mask of fatigue and sweat as he turned to the others.

"Two more hours," he said huskily. "We can't take more, if we're to get
the dredge into the 'Phoenix' and take off before midnight."

Those two hours, afterward, seemed weeks in length to Carlin. And the
mocking devil in his brain kept taunting, "It's no business of yours,
you know!"