Earth air and Earth smells in Carlin's nostrils, sleepy Earth sounds
in his ears; the shine of the old spaceport's beacons, and the soaring
loom of the distant tower that marked the spot where a man of long ago
had first dared space. This world, this little Earth, was worth risking
death for, even for a stranger from far stars!

He knew he was a little crazy, he still had a corner of his mind that
told him all this was mere intoxication of emotion which was sweeping
away reason. But the mocking devil in Carlin's mind was gone, and he
was one in mind and purpose with his companions, now.

The others too were feeling that wild reaction, for Loesser clapped
Carlin's shoulder, crying:

"It's like getting out of prison to get started!"

"We're not off Earth yet!" warned Jonny. "Cut the lights and drive
around to the north end of the spaceport, Harb. Ease the truck to the
'Phoenix' as quietly as you can." A little later he warned, "Slower,
slower. Keep to the edge of the tarmac."

Lightless, its motors a mere low rumble, the big truck crept around the
dark edge of the spaceport toward the "Phoenix." The little planet-ship
took black shape in the darkness, a low, torpedo bulk brooding beneath
the stars. Harb backed the truck toward its side, as they jumped out of
the cab.

Light flashed on them from a hand-krypton in the door of the "Phoenix!"
A lean, uniformed figure stood there, gun in hand, looking at them.

"I thought you would be coming," said Ross Floring quietly. "Jonny, I'm
sorry about this."

Carlin was as frozen as his companions, by the disastrous overturn of
their attempt at secrecy. Floring stepped out of the ship.

"I've been looking through your ship while I waited," he said. "You
have triple as much heat-screen coverage as you'd need for the Hot Side
of Mercury. You were going to the Sun."

"You can't prove it, Ross," Jonny said levelly. "You've no proof."

"I've enough to prohibit this ship from clearing Earth until
investigation," Floring replied. "A certain report will reach me from
Canopus by morning. Then we'll see."

Carlin saw it then, saw the dark giant figure of Harb Land stealing
around the truck and looming up behind Floring. He glimpsed the gleam
of Harb's raised atom-pistol.

Then Harb struck. The butt of the weapon came down on Floring's head
and the officer crumpled limply to the tarmac.

"See if anyone else is in the ship!" Jonny said swiftly. "Loesser,
watch the Control station!"

Then he bent with Carlin over the unconscious man.

"We'll have to take him with us," Jonny said. "If we leave him here
he'd soon be found, then the Control cruisers would be after us."

A few weeks before, Laird Carlin would have been aghast at seeing
a semi-sacred officer of Control Operations struck down. With what
spirit of reckless defiance of law had his companions infected him? He
marveled at himself as he coolly picked up the limp figure.

"Tie him into one of the chairs in the pilot room," Jonny was saying.

Harb came plunging out of the ship. "Nobody else aboard. He came over
here alone."

By the time Carlin had the unconscious man secured in the pilot room,
Harb and the others had slid open the big hatch in the side of the
"Phoenix." Hastily, fumbling in darkness, they ran out the ship hoist
and hooked onto the big magnetic dredge.

Then, with infinite labor, they swung the massive mechanism into the
hold amidships. Mere short flashes of hand lamps had to suffice to
guide the beam-head of the dredge down into the round keel opening.

"Fasten half the frame bolts--they'll hold till we get into space,"
panted Jonny.

Carlin skinned his knuckles in the dark, fumbling with bolts and
wrench. Every instant he expected to hear an alarm from Loesser that
Control officers were coming.

"That'll have to hold," said the sweating Jonny. "Run the truck off the
tarmac. Harb, make ready for take-off!"