IV

                           _Mystery Machine_


Laird Carlin was child of a galactic civilization in which violence
between men was rare. There was plenty of danger yet, in pioneering new
star-worlds, but over the civilized worlds themselves the unchallenged
law of the Control Council maintained unbroken order. A man could go a
lifetime without ever seeing violence.

The atom-pistol in Loesser's hand and the obvious murderous intention
in the man's face stupefied Carlin. He was simply unable to adjust his
thinking to the possibility that the enraged Earthman before him meant
to blast him down.

"Why, what's the matter?" he began, puzzled and stunned.

He knew later how near he had been to death. At the moment, he so
little recognized it that he felt no relief at the interruption that
came now. Harb and Jonny Land came running forward from the cavernous
interior of the workshop.

"Loesser, put that gun down!" snapped Jonny.

Loesser turned violently. "This fellow was spying on us! I saw him at
the door!"

Harb Land's craggy face darkened ominously.

"I warned you what might happen," he said harshly to his brother.

"Is this man crazy?" Laird Carlin demanded bewilderedly of Jonny.

The lame youngster limped quickly forward. "Get back to work," he told
the other two briefly. "Carlin, I'm sorry about this. I'll explain."

He walked beside Carlin toward the house. It was not until later that
Carlin realized how deftly and unobtrusively he had been steered away
from the workshop.

"Harb and Loesser and I, and a few others, are planning an expedition
to Mercury to prospect for copper," Jonny was explaining. "In that ship
you saw down at the spaceport. We've devised a new metal-finder of the
radiolocator type, with which we hope to be able to locate new copper
deposits. That's the machine in the workshop.

"We've maintained a certain secrecy about it," he went on, "because
naturally we don't want other prospectors stealing the idea of our new
finder and beating us to it. And I'm afraid Loesser thought you were
spying on us. People here are always a little suspicious of strangers."

"So I've noticed," Carlin answered dryly. "This is the first world in
the galaxy where I've ever felt completely unwelcome."

"Oh, I wouldn't say that," replied the other. "But put yourself in our
place, Carlin. Figure how you would feel if you were an Earthman, your
world starved for power because its copper was spent to establish a
galactic civilization that now neglects it."

Jonny's thin brown face was earnest, his blue eyes watching Carlin as
though eager to convince him. Carlin shook his head.

"I can see your problem in lacking copper," he said. "But the remedy
for it is so simple. Nine-tenths of you should emigrate to other,
better worlds as the Control Council advised."

Jonny smiled. "There you come up against the obstinacy of my people.
We've an older planetary tradition, a deeper, more ancient love for our
world, than any other people in the galaxy."

"I think you people live too much in the past," Carlin answered
frankly. "But it's none of my business. Anyway, I hope your expedition
brings home copper."

"Thanks," Jonny said softly. "I think we have a good chance."

Carlin went back to the veranda of the old house and sat there
pondering. Something about Jonny's explanation had been vaguely
unsatisfying.

To his trained eyes, the glimpse he had had of that towering machine
had not suggested any metal-finding device. There had somehow been a
suggestion in its half-glimpsed bulk of something quite different;
something vaguely disturbing, almost menacing.

"The devil, I must have knots in my subconscious to start getting
premonitions like that," Carlin swore. "The poor devils are just
secretive about their plans because everyone else here is that way."

He lounged boredly around the house during the hot, sleepy afternoon.
There was no one to talk to, for the brothers stayed out in their
workshop and Marn was out tending the big hydroponic tanks.

He tinkered with the old video set in the living room but the
only stations he could get were local Earth ones, and lectures on
hydroponics and gossip about unknown people didn't interest him.

He finally gave up and stretched out on the veranda, staring sleepily
down into the green cup of the valley and cursing the psychotherapist
whose insane idea had sent him here to die of boredom. He dozed until
he was awakened by the sputter of an arriving ato-truck.