Those old, pathetically flimsy ships, the enormous courage of those men
to whom space was all one unknown abyss. He began to understand why
tourists came from all the galaxy to see these mementoes.

"They and their little ships started it all, the whole galactic
civilization, the vast human empire," he said musingly.

Marn was looking up at the spire towering in the dusk.

"People criticize us Earthmen for our pride. But this is why we're
proud. We're the people who opened up the frontiers of the Universe."

Carlin nodded thoughtfully. "You've a great heritage. But perhaps you
remember it too well. This is the present, not the past."

"You're like all the others, you think Earth's history is over," Marn
said defiantly. "You'll find out differently. Earthmen will open up the
last frontier of all--" She checked herself suddenly, and then said,
crestfallen, "I'm sorry. I didn't mean to quarrel."

Carlin wanted to ask what she had meant, but Marn started on again
through the deepening darkness toward her brother's ship.

He walked with her into the battered planet-cruiser and looked around
curiously. It was a medium craft designed for a minimum crew, with
oversize cyclotrons and propulsion-wave equipment, drive-plates fore
and aft, and an unusually heavy set of heat-screen generators.

"The Hot Side of Mercury is terrible," Marn said when she saw him
glancing at the generators. "You need the heaviest heat-screens you can
get to prospect there."

Amidships, Carlin noticed a big, empty round room or hold. There was
nothing in it but a skeleton of girders designed to hold something over
a sliding plate in the floor.

He remembered Jonny's big machine in the workshop. It would fit into
this frame. He would have liked to make further inspection but Marn had
found the instruments she had come after.

As they emerged from the ship, a lean, uniformed figure in the dusk
greeted them in a pleasant voice.

"Hello, Marn. I saw you walking across the tarmac. How is Jonny coming
with his plans?"

It was a young man in the gray uniform of Control Operations, the
agency of law and order throughout the galaxy. He bowed to Carlin.

"I'm Ross Floring, Control Operations commander here. You're the
Earth-treatment chap staying with the Lands? Glad to meet you."

Floring was not more than thirty, an alert, clean-cut, likable young
man. He turned back to Marn.

"How soon are Jonny and his friends planning to take off for Mercury?"

Marn looked uncomfortable. "I don't know, Ross. They have some more
preparations to make, they say."

Carlin somehow sensed a strain in the atmosphere. There was an
earnestness in Floring's manner that was not accounted for by his words.

"I like Jonny a lot, Marn," he said seriously. "You know that. I'd
hate to see him have trouble on this expedition."

Marn seemed to evade his meaning. "Jonny won't have any trouble. A trip
to Mercury is nothing for Harb and him."

"I sincerely hope he won't," Floring said quietly. "Copper isn't worth
risking too much for. Tell him I said so, will you? And tell him I'm
coming up some day to talk with him."

Marn was obviously eager to get away. Carlin, puzzled, followed her.

"I'll see you again, Mr. Carlin," Floring called after him pleasantly.
"We can have a talk about home. Yes, I come from Canopus too."

It wasn't until they were in the ato-truck driving homeward that Carlin
realized he hadn't told Floring his name or origin. Why would Control
Operations have taken the trouble to check up on that?

"Floring seemed like a nice chap," he told Marn. The girl nodded,
troubled.

"He is--one of the best," she said. "And he likes Jonny. But he'd
forget everything else for his duty."

She was, obviously, thinking aloud rather than answering Carlin. He
wondered again about that queer feeling of strain. It had sounded
almost as though Floring were warning her.