V

                           _Desperate Play_


The truck wheezed and groaned up the dark old road to the ridge. In the
velvet black skies, the stars were chains of glittering light. Vega,
Arcturus, Altair--they looked far away.

The house was dark when Marn stopped the truck behind it, though there
were still lights out in the workshop. There was a solemn, buzzing hush
about the starlit summer night.

"I have to take these things back to Jonny," said the girl.

"Marn, what are your brothers really planning?" Carlin asked her. "Does
Floring know?"

She twisted uncomfortably. "Jonny told you all about their plans
himself, didn't he?"

She was such a poor liar, she was so oddly appealing a figure in the
starlight as she looked up at him with troubled white face, that
sudden impulse made Carlin bend and kiss her.

Her small body was firm and warm in his hands and there was a
breathlessness about her cool lips. But she did not move.

He looked down at her. "You don't mind, do you?" he asked.

"No, I don't mind," Marn said, her voice toneless, "It's all right for
a star-world visitor to have a little flirtation with an Earth girl
before he goes away, isn't it?"

"But it isn't that!" Carlin started to protest, and then stopped.

After all, what was it but that? What could it be but that?

"It's all right, but please don't again," Marn said quietly. "Good
night, Laird."

He went into the house feeling depressed and thoughtful. He wished now
that he hadn't had that impulse. Marn wasn't the sophisticated sort.

Lying in his bed and looking out the window at the distant spaceport
beacons down in the valley, Carlin heard her come in and retire.
Apparently Jonny and Harb were still working.

What were they working at really? Why had Floring been so grave in his
veiled warning?

"Oh, the devil, it's none of my business," Carlin yawned. "There isn't
much in this little system for them to get into trouble about. Nothing
but eight or nine small planets and one medium sun."

Carlin suddenly sat bolt upright in bed as his mind dwelt on that last
thought.

"The Sun? Good glory, that's what they're up to! It must be!
Sun-mining!"

He was dismayed, horrified by the sudden flash of revelation. The
disquieting mystery that had puzzled him since his first coming here
suddenly shaped clearly as pieces fell together in his mind.

"They wouldn't be so crazy as to try it, surely! Yet it all fits
together--the heat-screens on their ship, the secrecy about it all. And
that machine I saw could be a big magnetic dredge!"

Sun-mining! Most strictly forbidden of enterprises, banned by the
Control Council for years since the first disastrous attempts at it had
almost wrecked certain planetary systems.

Visions of frightening possibilities crowded Carlin's mind, of a
desperately reckless attempt unchaining catastrophe on the inner
planets of this little system.

"But Jonny Land wouldn't try it! He's a CE, he knows what would happen."

Carlin could not convince himself. He remembered only too clearly
Jonny's intense obsession with Earth's copper shortage, his quiet
determination.

And Floring must suspect something of the truth! That was what had made
the Control Officer give his grave hinted warning.

Carlin got up and feverishly dressed. He had to find out the truth,
now, at once. If the Land brothers and their friends were really bent
on such a mad enterprise, it would have to be stopped even if it meant
his informing Control Operations.

"If I could get one good look at the inside of that machine of theirs,
I could soon tell whether it's really a magnetic dredge," he thought.

He went quietly down through the dark house and out into the starlight.
Light and sounds of activity still came from the workshop.

Carlin crept toward it. He hated this spying. But he had to know. He
couldn't permit a crazy attempt to unloose disaster here.

The workshop was closed, and there were no windows. But as he stood
irresolute, the big front doors opened and Loesser and two other young
Earthmen came out, wearily mopping their brows.

"We'll be back tomorrow, Jonny," Loesser called back into the building.
"Ought to finish her up in a few days now."

The three strode wearily toward their ato-truck and drove away. The
doors remained open for the moment.