It contained three lanky young men, tall Earthmen who went back to
the workshop without stopping at the house. The other partners in the
prospecting expedition, Carlin supposed sleepily.

Again he felt that queer sense of something threatening, that vague
premonition that had clung to him ever since he glanced into the
workshop. If only he could remember what that machine reminded him of.

Days passed and Carlin still could not remember that, though his
disturbing doubt persisted. There was no chance of another look into
the workshop for it was always locked except when Jonny and Harb and
their half-dozen partners worked in it.

"The trouble with me," Carlin told himself ironically, "is that I
haven't anything else to occupy my mind on this blamed world."

Yet Carlin's first repelled dislike of Earth had faded much by now.
The crudities of existence, the lack of civilized conveniences, no
longer bothered him so much. He had to admit that whether or not
Earth-treatment was benefiting his twisted subconscious, this sleepy
old planet was a fine place for a rest.

He spent his mornings idly rambling the twisting roads, his afternoons
lounging on the cool, shady veranda of the old house, or helping Marn
tend the hydroponic tanks. Or fishing with Gramp in the foaming brook
below the ridge, while that oldster told interminable tales of the old
days when he had followed space.

Neighbors, hydroponic farmers up and down the valley, dropped in at
the Land house in the evenings. Carlin did not intrude, and gradually
their first stiff suspicion of him abated and they talked freely before
him. The talk always swung to the paramount consideration on this
power-starved planet--the need for copper. It made Carlin feel a little
guilty to remember how much of it was wasted on other worlds.

"I have to drive down to the spaceport for Jonny, to get some
instruments he left in the ship," Marn said to him after dinner one
evening. "Do you want to go along?"

Carlin grinned. "I've legged it so much lately that riding anywhere
would be a change."

The old ato-truck swung down the twisting road in the blaring sunset.
The heavens behind them were a glory of fusing colors as the red ball
of Sol dipped majestically toward the horizon.

Despite his appreciation of that wild splendor, Carlin felt a vague
uneasiness. Why should the loveliness of the evening bring disturbing
recollection of Jonny Land's puzzling machine into his mind?

"You're getting to like it better here, aren't you?" asked Marn.

She was usually so silent with him that Carlin glanced quickly at
her profile as she drove. It struck him with surprise that she had a
certain beauty. Her thick mop of ashen hair, and firm-chinned face,
and small, competent hands grasping the wheel, were oddly attractive.
It wasn't the fine-edged, shimmering beauty that Nila had, but it had
appeal.

"Yes, I must be getting more accustomed to it," he answered her
question. "And it's not as provincial as I thought. Nearly every man
you meet here has been to space some time or other."

"Every Earth boy runs away to space sooner or later," she said, and
smiled. "Following space is in our blood. And our planet's so poor now
that it's the only way most of our men can make a living." She added,
"Some of our men never come back. My father didn't. And my mother died,
when he was lost."

It was dusk when they reached the spaceport. As he walked with the girl
along its edge toward her brothers' ship, she drew him aside toward a
tall shaft that loomed up spectrally in the twilight.

"This is where the first Earthman went away to space," she told him.

He looked at the deeply engraved legend on the pedestal of the soaring
column. It was the Monument to the Space-Pioneers.

"Gorham Johnson took off in his first flight from this very spot," Marn
said.

Carlin strained his eyes in the dusk to read the roll of names and
dates engraved on the pedestal.

                         Gorham Johnson, 1991
                           Mark Carew, 1998
                            Jan Wenzi, 2006
                           John North, 2012

Names of the men who long ago had first dared space, the men who had
first followed a dream to the nearby planets that then had seemed so
far, the men who had first hurtled starward and opened up the galaxy.

"Lord, more than two thousand years ago," Carlin murmured. "Queer
little ships they must have had."

His imagination was touched. This simple roll of names of men long dead
somehow brought it all close to him for the first time.