Sassoon thought that one over.

"Then switch it back on again. Let's get this over," he snapped, and
turned to look for Joe Squeeb. But the janitor had discreetly faded.
His broom leaned, deserted, in the doorway. Squeeb wasn't so dumb as he
looked!

"Nine-- --Six-- -- --Four--" The Solver was slowing down a little as
the calculations became more involved with unwieldy quotients. But
there was grim resolve in the metallic tone.

I tapped Bertrand on the shoulder.

"How long will this take?" I asked.

"Couldn't say." He smiled thinly. "We once wore out several machines
on that problem. Imagine a Joe Squeeb saving us from--" He stopped
abruptly.

"Can't you tell the Solver some way that the present answer is close
enough?"

Bertrand shook his head.

"As you may recall, Joe Squeeb definitely asked for an exact answer.
The Solver will give it--regardless!"

"Eight-- --one-- --two--" The Solver was beginning to sound labored.
Inside the great machine relays were madly racing.

"I guess Joe Squeeb just lost a job," I murmured.

"He has another job waiting for him." Bertrand almost grinned. "We need
someone to dust our equipment--someone who knows enough not to monkey
with things. It'll really be a pension job."

I looked at Sassoon. He appeared very unhappy. Not only had he made
a chump of himself, but it looked as if he'd spiked his own guns by
gumming up the Solver. He couldn't use the machine for his own ends and
he'd have no excuse for stealing the next one to be built.

When I left Solver Hall the machine was gurgling a number about
every twenty seconds and slowing down all the time. Sassoon had
asked Bertrand to get busy and shut it up some way, and Bertrand was
gently explaining to him that it was merely a matter of time--lots of
time--before the Solver would stop. Unless Sassoon wanted it torn apart.

I sent out a teletype release to the waiting world. It read:

SASSOON SUMMONS SCIENTISTS FOR SOLUTION AS SOLVER STRANGLES ON SQUARING
OF CIRCLE. SASSOON SWEARS TO SILENCE SOLVER. ODDS 1,000,000 TO 1 ON
SOLVER. AP.

Ten seconds after the release, old B. J. was at my desk. Red eyed!

"Pinfeather," he roars, "you're fired!"

"It's Pennyfeather," I retort. "And I quit two seconds before you
spoke!"

"All right, all right! Bunnyweather, then!" He clutches the edge of my
desk. "Only get out of my sight! Quick!"

And that is Joe Squeeb's story. Right now he's working for swell wages
at Science Hall. They all call him Joe and ask him all the time how
is his family and how is his arthritis. He's even putting on a little
weight.

As for old B. J.--I figure he'll come around to me, apologizing, some
day. Unless apoplexy gets him first. I'm just waiting while I write
these memoirs.