BASSETT had gone into the house too. As he crossed the living-room he
noticed its deserted quietude, in contrast to the noise and bustle that
had possessed it an hour ago.

It was a rich friendly room, comfortably homelike in spite of its size,
for it crossed the center of the house, its rear door opening on the
garden as the one opposite did on the path. It was spacious in height
as well as width, its walls rising two stories. Midway up a gallery
ran, on three sides of which the bedrooms opened. The fourth side, on
the seaward front, was flanked by a line of windows, great squares of
unsullied glass that looked over the garden and the amphitheater to
the uplands and the open ocean. There were tables here, raking wicker
chairs, and low settees with brilliant cushions, books lying about and
smokers’ materials. In the room below the character of a hunting lodge
had been suggested by mounted deer heads, Indian blankets, baskets of
cunning weave and animal skins on the floor. But it was an idealized
hunting lodge, with seats in which the body sank luxuriously, and
softly shaded lights. Round the deep-mouthed chimney the scent of wood
fires lingered, the fires of birch logs that leaped there when Gull
Island lay under storm and mist. The architect had not diminished the
effect of size and unencumbered space by stairs. The second story was
reached by two flights, one in the entrance hall, one in the kitchen
wing.

Bassett opened the door into the hall where again all was quiet, none
of the jarring accents that occasionally rose from the Stokes’ room.
He walked across the gleaming parquette to the library which he had
used for his office. There were no signs of the hunting lodge here--a
scholarly retreat, book-lined, with leather armchairs and lights
arranged for readers’ eyes, a place for delightful hours if one had
time to drowse and poke about on the shelves. Two long French windows
framed a view of the channel and Hayworth dreaming among its elms. He
went to one of the windows and looked out. The girls were still sitting
there, and, as he looked at them, an expression of infinite tenderness
lay like a light on his face. It was the light Shine had noticed,
allowed to break through clearly now that no one was there to see.

He sat down at the desk; there were letters for him to answer, addenda
of the performance to check up. He moved the papers, looked at them,
pushed them away, and, resting his forehead on his hands, relinquished
himself to a deep pervading happiness. Yesterday Anne had promised to
marry him.

His mind, held all day to his work, now flew to her--memories of her
face with the down-bent lids as he had asked her, and the look in her
eyes as they met his. Brave beautiful eyes with her soul in them. It
had been no light acceptance for her, it meant the surrendering of her
whole being, her life given over to him. He heard her voice again, and
his face sank into his hands, his heart trembling in the passion of its
dedication to her service. Anne, whom he had coveted and yearned for
and thought so far beyond his reach--his! He would be worthy of her,
and he would take such care of her, gird her round with his two arms, a
buckler against every ill that life might bring. She’d had such a hard
time of it, struggling up by herself with Joe hung round her neck like
a millstone.

At the memory of Joe he came to earth with a jarring impact. He dropped
his hands and stared at the papers, his brows bent in harassed thought.
Joe had broken the charm, obstructed the way to the paradise of dreams
like the angel with the flaming sword--though angel was not exactly the
word. Bassett had heard something that morning from Sybil which must
be looked into--something he could hardly believe. But Joe being what
he was you never could tell. It had been a mistake to bring him, with
Sybil a bunch of nerves and Stokes shunted unexpectedly into their
midst. And now he felt responsible, he’d have it out with Joe before he
left. One more disagreeable scene before they separated to-morrow, and
Bassett, like Mrs. Cornell, felt he’d thank Providence when they were
all on the train in the morning. Meantime he’d go over his papers while
he waited for the boy who had gone to his room to dress. The door was
open and he could hear him as he came down the stairs.

Anne was approaching the house, a slender crimson figure, her hair
in the sunset light shining like black lacquer. She was smiling to
herself--everything was so beautiful, not only Gull Island and this
hour of tranquil glory, but the mere fact of existing. Then she saw
Flora Stokes sitting on the balcony and realized that in this golden
world there were people to whom life was a dark and troublous affair.
She wanted to comfort Flora, let some of the happiness in her own heart
spill over into that burdened one. But she knew no way of doing it,
could only smile at the haggard face the woman lifted from her book.

“Oh, Mrs. Stokes, reading,” she cried as she ran up the steps. “How
can you read on such an evening as this?”

Flora Stokes said she had been walking about till she was tired, and
then glanced at the distant rock:

“You’ve left Sybil out there.”

There was no comfort or consolation that could penetrate Mrs. Stokes’
obsession. Anne could only reassure:

“She’s coming in soon. She just wanted to see the end of the sunset.”

She passed into the hall, sorry--oh, so sorry! But the library door
was open and she halted, poised birdlike for one glance. The man at
the desk had his back to her and she said nothing, yet he turned, gave
a smothered sound and jumped up. She shut her eyes as she felt his
arms go about her and his kisses on her hair, her senses blurred in a
strange ineffably sweet confusion of timidity and delight.

“Oh, Anne,” she heard his voice between the kisses. “I was waiting for
you.”

“Some one will see us,” she whispered. “Take care.”

She could feel the beating of his heart through his coat. Her hands
went up to his shoulders feeling along the rough tweed and with her
lids down-drooped she lifted her face.

“Darling,” he breathed, when the kiss was over, “I thought you were
never coming.”

“I had to stay with Sybil. She didn’t want to be alone.”

“But _you_ wanted to be here?”

“Just _here_,” she laid a finger on his breast and broke into
smothered, breathless laughter.

He laughed too and they drew apart, their hands sliding together and
interlocking. It was all so new, so bewilderingly entrancing, that they
did not know how to express it, the man staring wonder-struck, the
girl, with her quivering laughter that was close to tears, looking this
way and that, not knowing where to look.

“I ought to go,” she whispered. “They’ll be coming,” but made no move.

“Wait till they do.” Then with a sudden practical facing of realities,
“When will we be married?”

“Oh, not for ages! I’m not used to being engaged yet!”

“I am--I never was before but I must have had a talent for it, I’ve
taken to it so well.”

“Oh, Hugh!” Her laughter came more naturally, his with it. They were
like a pair of children, delighting in a little secret. “Won’t they be
surprised when they hear? Nobody has a suspicion of it.”

She looked so enchanting with her eyebrows arched in mischievous query
that he made a movement to clasp her again, and then came the creak of
an opening door from the floor above.

“Hist!” she held up a warning hand and slid away, her face, glancing
back for a last look, beautiful in its radiant joy.

Bassett moved to the stair-foot. Once again he had to come down to
earth with a bump. He passed his hand over his face as if to wipe off
an expression incompatible with disagreeable interviews. This must be
Joe.

It _was_ Joe, dressed for travel in knickerbockers and a Norfolk
jacket, a golf cap on the back of his head. He carried an overcoat
across his arm, in his hands a suit-case and a fishing-rod done up in
a canvas case. At the sight of Bassett he halted, and the elder man
noticed a change in his expression, a quick focusing to attention.

“Oh,” he said. “Want to see me, Bassett?”

“Yes, I want to speak to you before you go.”

Joe descended. Stopping a step above Bassett, he set down his baggage
and leaned on the banister, politely waiting.

Bassett spoke with lowered voice:

“I heard something this morning that I can hardly believe--an
accusation against you. That you’ve been using your position here to
act as one of the police spies who’ve been keeping tab on Sybil.”

The boy looked at him with impenetrable eyes and answered in the same
lowered key:

“Who told you that?”

“She did. She accuses you of having come here with that intention, got
the job knowing that no outsiders were to be allowed on the island.”

Bassett was certain he had paled under his tan, but his face retained a
masklike passivity.

“Sounds as if she might be losing her mind.”

“You deny it?”

The boy gave a scornful shrug:

“Of course I deny it. I shouldn’t think it would be necessary to ask
that. She’s had a down on me for some time--everybody’s seen it,
snapping and snarling at me for nothing--and I suppose she wants to get
an excuse for it.”

“She says she came upon you examining a letter of hers, holding it up
to the light. And three days ago she found you in her room looking over
the papers in her desk.”

“Ah!” he made a gesture of angry contempt. “It would make a person
sick--examining her letters! I was looking through the mail bag to see
if there was anything for me. If I took up one of hers by mistake does
that prove I was examining it?”

“How about the other thing?”

“Being in her room? Yes, I was there. I went in to get a stamp. I had
an important letter to go when Gabriel took over the mail and it was
time for him. All the rest of you were out. Her room was next to mine
and I went in. I never thought anything about it, no more than I would
have thought about going into Anne’s or yours or anybody else’s. She’s
nutty, I tell you. You can’t trust her word. And if she says I’m hired
to spy on her she’s a damned----”

He stopped. Basset’s eye was steady on him in a cold command he knew.
There was the same cold quality in the director’s voice:

“If the position Sybil’s in has made her suspicious, that’s all right.
I’d like to believe it was the case. But if any of us--supposedly
her friends--had inserted themselves in here to carry on police
surveillance, using _me_ to get them in--well, I’d not think _that_ all
right.”

Joe leaned over the banister. His control was shaken, his voice
hoarsely urgent:

“You got to be fair, Bassett, and because you’re sorry for her is no
reason to set her word over mine. It’s _not_ true. Don’t you believe
me?”

Bassett did not answer for a moment. He wanted to believe and he
doubted; he thought of Joe’s desire to come, of the reward:

“I guess you know, Joe, you can trust me to be fair, but I’m not going
to commit myself till I know. It won’t be hard to do that. I can find
out when I get back to New York. And take this from me--if what Sybil
says is true I’m done with you. No more help from me, no more work in
any company I manage. And I fancy the whole theatrical profession will
feel the same way.” He drew back from the stair-foot. The disagreeable
interview was over. “There’s no good talking any more about it.
Accusations and denials don’t get us anywhere. We’ll let it rest till
I’ve made my inquiries. I’ll say good-by now and hope you’ll have a
good time in the woods.”

He turned and walked up the hall to his room on the garden front next
the Stokes’. Joe gathered his luggage and went the opposite way, down
the hall and into the big central apartment. He stepped with gingerly
softness as if he were creeping away from something he feared might
follow him. At the entrance door he set down his luggage and as he bent
over it a whispered stream of curses flowed from his lips. He cursed
Bassett and his luck, but Sybil with a savage variety of epithet and
choice of misfortune, for she had undone him. Straightening up he
looked blankly about--his inner turmoil was such he hardly knew where
he was--and he retraced his steps, seeking the seclusion of his room,
went up the stairs in noiseless vaulting strides like a frightened
spider climbing to its web.