ANNE had taken off her costume and slipped into a negligée to do her
packing comfortably, and then decided she had better bid good-by to
Joe first. Bidding good-by was not an obligation between them, but
she had to get the key of his trunk--it was going back to New York
with hers--and her heart in its new warmth yearned to him, her only
relation. She wanted to tell him her great secret, see an answering
joy leap into his face, for he thought more of Bassett than anybody,
and he’d be so surprised to hear that Anne, her charms held at a low
valuation, had won such a prize.

Her room was the first on the left side of the gallery, Joe’s next to
Sybil’s on the land front of the house. She passed the long line of
closed doors, voices coming from behind Mrs. Cornell’s, and reaching
Joe’s, knocked. A “Come in,” uninvitingly loud and harsh, answered her
and she entered. Joe was sitting in a low armchair, bent forward, his
hands holding a cane with which he was tapping on the floor. The bright
square of the window was behind him, framing rosy sky and the green
shore-line. He looked up to see who it was; then, without greeting or
comment, drooped his head and went on lightly striking the cane on
the carpet as if he were hammering in a nail and it required all his
attention. Anne felt dashed, his manner might have been the same to
an intruding stranger. She asked about the key, and he nodded to the
bureau where it lay. The trunk was packed and locked? To that he gave
an assenting grunt, then raised his head and looked at her--what have
you come here for, the look said.

It was not a reception to encourage confidences and she stood
uncomfortably regarding him, trying to find something to say that would
dispel his somber ill humor.

“You’re all ready? Where’s your luggage?”

“Down by the door. Is there anything else you want to know?”

“_I_ don’t want to know, I was thinking of you. You’re always late, and
it’s different here with only one way to get ashore and Gabriel never
willing to wait.”

He made no answer, continuing his play with the cane. She knew that
something was wrong and sat down on the arm of a chair, uneasy,
wondering what it was:

“I’m glad you’ve managed this holiday. And it’s so jolly having Jimmy
Travers, he’s such a sport. You’ll meet him to-night at Bangor. At the
Algonquin Inn--wasn’t that the name of it?”

“Um.”

“I want to be sure because if any important mail should come for you I
could send it there to meet you on your way back. Algonquin Inn--I’ll
remember that. Then off to-morrow morning--it’ll be lovely in the woods
now.”

“Any place would be lovely after this beastly hole.”

“Beastly hole! I thought you liked it!”

“Did you? Take another guess.”

“You expected to like it. You wanted to come.”

He made no answer, but slanting his body sidewise with an air of
ostentatious endurance, took out his watch and looked at it. She
ignored the hint--you couldn’t be sensitive with Joe--and leaning
toward him asked:

“What’s the matter, Joe?”

“Matter--with what?”

“You! Has anything happened?”

“Oh, no, nothing’s happened.” His words were mincingly soft. “What
_could_ happen with such a charming lot of people and Miss Saunders
playing the star rôle in the performance and out.”

It was Sybil then--he’d been working himself into a bad temper over
her treatment of him. Anne had thought it odd he had not mentioned it
before:

“You’re angry with Sybil, and I don’t think she has been very nice
to you. I’ve noticed it, especially the last three days and this
afternoon when we were sitting out there on the rock I tried to make
her tell me why.”

He raised his head; the profile sharply defined against the window
showed a working muscle in the cheek: “And did she tell you?”

“No, she didn’t seem to want to talk about it. She changed the subject.”

“How considerate!”

“There’s no sense getting annoyed about it because I don’t think she
has any reason. You have to make excuses for her. She’s gone through
this awful experience and her nerves are all wracked to pieces. You
have to be patient and take her as a sort of afflicted person--”

He dashed the cane down and jumped to his feet in a volcanic explosion
of rage:

“I don’t take her that way. I take her for what she is, a damned lying
hypocrite.”

“Joe!” She was amazed, not so much at the words, as at the suddenness
of the outburst and the contorted passion of his face.

“She thinks she can treat me any way she wants and get away with it.
Well, she’ll find her mistake, she’s taken the wrong turning this time.
She takes me for a yellow dog she can kick whenever she feels like it.
But I got teeth, I can bite. Patient--be patient--God, I’d like to
wring her neck, the damned----.”

He used an epithet that brought Anne to her feet, breathing battle:
“Don’t dare to say that of my friend, Joe Tracy.”

He stood in front of her, hump-shouldered, with outthrust jaw, brows
drawn low over eyes gleaming like a cat’s. She had never seen him look
like that; he seemed a stranger, a horrible stranger, and she drew
away, aghast at the revelation of a being so sinisterly unfamiliar.
Her look brought him back to self-control. He jerked his head up, ran
a hand over his hair, and turned away to the window. Standing there he
said:

“Well, I take that back. I didn’t mean to say it. But she’s made me
mad; I think she’d make anybody.”

The tone, surly still, had a placating quality; it was as near an
apology as Joe could ever come. She felt immeasurably relieved for
he had frightened her. To see the family cat, whose vagaries of
temperament she knew by heart, suddenly transformed into a tiger, had
given her a shock. She accepted his amends without comment, but she
could not resist a sisterly admonition:

“If you’d only stop getting mad over small things you’d find life so
much easier.”

He laughed:

“Good advice from little sister! It doesn’t cost anything and it’s the
correct _ingenue_ pose.”

He turned from the window smiling, Joe at his most amiable. If he
had met her this way she would have poured out her secret. But her
high mood had fallen and besides he wanted her to go--he said he had
a letter to write yet. Lounging toward her he put his hands on her
shoulders, gave her a light kiss on the cheek and pushed her toward the
door.

On her way back along the gallery she recalled his face in that
moment of rage with troubled question. She wondered if there was more
disturbing him than she knew--it was an extraordinary exhibition of
anger for such a cause. Also she had not felt sure that his change of
mood was genuine, his laugh had rung false, and when he had laid his
hands on her shoulders she had felt their coldness through the thin
stuff of her negligée. She heaved a sigh of relief at the thought that
he was going. In his present mood there was no knowing what clashes
there might be, and it was the last evening, and there would be a full
moon, and she and Bassett would walk like lovers under its magic light.

When her door had closed, the gallery and living-room became as quiet
as though the house were unoccupied. Sybil, approaching it, heard no
sound of voices, a fact that reassured her, for the long day had tired
her and she had no mind for talk. She was coming in by the balcony when
she saw Flora Stokes sitting there reading and deflected her course
toward the path that skirted the building’s front. If Flora noticed
her she made no sign, her eyes glued to her book, and Sybil, stepping
softly, for she dreaded the woman’s resentful glances, passed along to
the entrance of the living-room. The place was deserted and she stopped
on the threshold for a last look at the sky’s fading splendors.

Across the depths of the room the door into the hall opened, but so
gently that she did not hear it. Stokes made this noiseless entrance in
the hope that she might be there, and now, seeing his hope fulfilled,
closed the door as carefully, standing against it watching her.

If the conventional garb of the street was not as becoming to his
darkly Byronic style as the trappings of the Duke, he was still
unusually handsome. A figure of distinction in its lean grace, with
proud hawk features and the deep-set melancholy eyes that the matinée
girl loves. Even his pallor had charm in their opinion, adding to his
romantic suggestion. Gull Island sun and breezes had left no trace upon
it; his face against the background of the door was a yellowish white.

Seeing that she did not turn he pronounced her name. At that she
wheeled, lightning-quick, and came forward from beneath the deep jut of
the gallery assuming as unconcerned a manner as she could.

“Lovely evening,” she said as she advanced. “It’s been hard to come in.”

“Evidently from the length of time you stayed out there. I’ve been
waiting for you.”

It was not a propitious beginning, especially as he still stood against
the door as if intending to bar her exit.

“I’m going up-stairs to dress now.”

“There’s plenty of time. You can give me a few minutes. I’ve something
I want to say to you.”

“Oh, Aleck!” She stopped with an air of weary expostulation. “_Don’t_
say anything more. _Don’t_ begin that dreadful subject. I’m sick of it,
I loathe it and _can’t_ you see it isn’t any use?”

He went on as if he hadn’t heard her:

“I’ve been trying for days, ever since I came here. And you keep
avoiding me, always having some one with you. Now we’ll be going
to-morrow, we may not have another chance, and I must see you and tell
you”--he stopped and looked at the gallery. “Did I hear a step up
there?”

She had heard nothing and thought it odd that he should be so suddenly
cautious. Discretion had been the last quality he had heretofore shown.

“I _have_ avoided you and I’m going to continue doing it. Please move
away from the door. It’s silly to stand in front of it for I can go
round by the garden, but I’m tired and I don’t want to.”

He came forward, speaking as he advanced.

“This isn’t what you think. I’m done with that. You’ve made me
understand, you’ve got it across, Sybil. I’m not going to bother you
any more with that subject you loathe and think so dreadful. But I
can’t help loving you and wanting to help you.” She gave an exasperated
gesture and made a move to pass him. As she did so, he said: “I’ve
heard something of Jim Dallas.”

She stopped as if all animating force had been stricken out of her, a
“What?” expelled on a caught breath.

“Just before I left town I met an actor who says he saw him.”

“Are you telling me the truth?”

“Why should I lie? What do I gain by it? I swore the fellow to secrecy
and came up here to tell you and I’ve been trying----”

She broke in: “Was he sure? Where was it?”

The change in her manner would have crushed the hope in any man.
Shunning him like a leper, she now drew close and laid her hand on his
arm.

“I can’t tell you here. It’s too dangerous, too many people coming and
going.”

“It _was_ Jim?”

“It _was_. It’s quite a story, more than just seeing him. But we’ve got
to get somewhere away from all these damned doors----”

One of them opened--that into the hall behind them. They heard it and
wheeled round, faces sharp-set in defensive interrogation. It was
Flora Stokes. She rested on the threshold looking at them, and Stokes,
his senses more alert than the girl’s, withdrew his arm from her clasp.

“Oh, Flora,” he said, his voice supremely light and easy. “Were you
looking for me?”

Mrs. Stokes said no, she had come to put her book back. She walked
slowly to a table and placed her book on the corner. The room was very
still as she did this. Stokes, his hands deep in his pockets, moved
his head, following her progress as if it roused his curiosity. The
girl stood without a sound, the scene passing under her eyes with a
mirage-like unreality.

“It seems I’ve intruded,” said Mrs. Stokes, each syllable meticulously
clear and precise. “But if you want to be alone I should think you’d
have chosen another place.”

“Having chosen this is a pretty good proof we didn’t want to be alone,”
retorted her husband.

She gave a light jeering sound of disbelief and walked to the entrance.
On the sill she turned and looked at them with smoldering eyes:

“Don’t be afraid I’ll stay. I’m going for a walk on the front of the
island. That’s as far away as I can get; I’d go farther if I could.”

She passed out of the door and Stokes turned to the girl:

“There--that’s what I was afraid of. Some of the rest of them may come
in at any minute. We’ve got to get out of here, some place outside.”

“The Point--the summer-house. I’ll go down there now--you follow me.”

She ran to the entrance, he at her heels. Walking leisurely up the
path to the summer-house was Shine. She threw out her hands with a
distracted gesture and struck a foot on the floor in a frantic stamp.
Stokes smothered an oath. “Tell me here,” she implored, but he answered
with an imperative shake of the head.

“The garden.” She was half-way across the room before he caught her up,
and this time it was he who laid his hand on her arm:

“Sybil, have some sense. You’ll get us in wrong every way. You don’t
want any of these people to see us out there whispering together.
That’s just the place they’ll go while they’re waiting round for
supper. Listen now, get a hold on yourself. Jim’s safety is more
important than your anxiety. That photographer chap’s just strolling
round killing time; he’ll move on from there presently. Go up to your
room and wait. You can see the Point from your window. If he’s gone by
seven, come down and go along to the summer-house. I’ll watch too and
I’ll meet you there.”

She opened her lips for a last protest, then evidently seeing there
was nothing else for it, gave out a groaning “All right” and left the
room. He followed her, saw her mount the stairs, and walked out on the
balcony. It was exquisitely still, the colors paling, the pines black
and motionless as if painted on the orange sky. He could see the figure
of his wife moving slowly toward the ocean bluffs. A newspaper lay on a
table near him and he took it up, slumping down in his chair as one who
relinquishes himself to a regained interest, but he did not read.