THE night search of the island had given up nothing and a daylight
exploration was set for the morning. Before this, however, Rawson
wanted to go through Miss Saunders’ room, which by his orders had been
locked and left untouched. It occupied the corner of the second floor
directly above the library, the first of the long line of bedchambers
that stretched across the land front of the house. Their doors opened
upon a hall that traversed the building from end to end, its central
section forming one side of the gallery.

In her short stay the girl seemed to have impressed the place with her
dainty charm. It was beauty’s bower, a bright and scented nest, chintz
bung, with white fur rugs on the floor and silken cushions which bore
the impress of her light weight. Steeped in the morning sun, warm and
still, it extended its welcome as if waiting for her entrance. The
signs of feminine occupation caught the eyes of the men and held them
chilled on the threshold. Enhancements of her beauty were strewn on
the bureau, the garments that had clothed her graceful body lay on the
bed where her hand had thrown them. A delicate perfume filled the air,
the fragrance of her passing habitation still lingering in ghostlike
sweetness after the living presence had gone.

Rawson moved first, shaking off the spell. He looked into the open
wardrobe trunk, completely packed but for the last hanger. “Going to
put her costume there,” he said, touching it with his index finger.
He pulled out the drawers and ran his eye over their contents. A gray
crêpe dress lay across the foot of the bed, beside it a cloak and a
black hat with a water-lily garnishing the brim. “These,” he said,
“were the clothes left out to wear.”

Bassett nodded. He could see Sybil in the gray dress with her hair a
golden fluff below the edge of the black hat. She had worn them on the
way up and been pleased when he had admired her costume.

They went over the desk; a few postage stamps and a writing tablet. But
the desk had evidently not been used--the square of new blotting paper
in the carved leather holder was unmarked. The waste-paper basket only
contained a torn veil and the wrapper of a package of hair pins. On the
bed-table was a book and a candy box containing two chocolate bonbons.

By the bureau an open bag stood on a chair. There was nothing in this
but a book, one of the many treatises on self-development and the
achievement of spiritual calm and control. Poor Sybil! Bassett turned
away with a sick heart--had she found now what she had been striving
for?

The dressing-table was the only place in the room that her neat
arranging hand had not touched. It was covered with a litter of toilet
articles, cold-cream jars, rouge boxes, powders and scents, a silver
hand mirror, a pair of long white gloves. Williams picked up a bead
bag and opened it. It contained a wisp of handkerchief, a bunch of
keys, a lip-stick and a gold change purse. In the central compartment
were three five-dollar bills and in the gold purse one dollar and
thirty-five cents in coin.

“This couldn’t have been all the money she had,” he queried.

“Why not?” said Bassett. “I guess some of us haven’t that much. She
didn’t need any. All our expenses were paid and she was going straight
home. One of those bills was probably intended for Miss Pinkney.”

Nothing more came to light. The closets were empty, the bathroom
contained a few toilet articles and a nightgown and negligée hanging on
the door. Obviously a place swept clean for a coming departure by one
who had no premonition that that departure would be final.

They passed out and along the hall, Rawson wanting to see the
disposition of the passages and stairs. At the door next to Miss
Saunders’ he stopped, asking who occupied that room. It was vacant now
but had been Joe Tracy’s. He opened the door and looked in upon another
chintz-hung chamber, all signs of recent habitation removed that
morning by Miss Pinkney’s energetic hand. A steamer trunk in the corner
caught his attention and Bassett explained it was young Tracy’s trunk
which his sister was to take back to New York with her.

Beyond that the hall ran into the gallery passing under an arch of
carved wood. They traversed it, looking down into the richly colored
expanse of the room below, and fared on under a companion arch into the
last stretch of the hall. At the stair-head Rawson halted:

“Only two flights connecting with this floor, the one in the front by
the library and this. Now the top story--how do you get to that?”

Bassett showed them a staircase at the end of the hall. He had never
been up there himself, but some one, Mrs. Cornell, he thought, had.
It was the servants’ quarters and had not been occupied during their
stay, Miss Pinkney and her helper having had rooms on the gallery.

Later on they would take a look up there, the island was their business
now. According to Williams, all this searching was merely a formality,
and they descended the stairs conferring together. It was their
purpose to keep Stokes and his wife from any possibility of private
communication. Shine had been delegated to stay beside one or other
of them, and so far, they had made no attempts to get together. Their
amenability added to Williams’ suspicion and it was his suggestion
that they should bring Stokes with them on their hunt. When that was
finished they planned taking Mrs. Stokes to the place of the murder and
making her rehearse just what she had seen.

Starting from the Point they explored the island foot by foot, scouting
across the open expanses where a rabbit could hardly have hidden and
prying into the hollows and rifts of the boulders on the shore. On
the sea front, wedged between miniature cliffs, there were triangles
and crescents of sand, bathing beaches with small pavilions built
against the cliffs. But no foot-prints marred the sand’s wave-beaten
smoothness, no trail of broken grass and brambles indicated the passage
of a body. The path that followed the bluff’s edge, making a detour
round the ravines, yielded neither trace nor clue. The dressing-rooms
back of the amphitheater behind a clump of cedars, gave no sign of
having harbored an alien presence. The little amphitheater itself, sunk
in its green cup, lay open to their eyes as they stood on its brink.
They walked among the stone seats, seamed with a velvet padding of
moss, and gathered up a few programs, a pair of woman’s gloves and a
necklace of blue beads.

That brought them to the end. The house had no outbuildings; garages,
barns and sheds were in the village across the channel. There was no
one in hiding on the island.

They found Flora, Shine and Mrs. Cornell on the balcony. As they came
up Flora looked at them and then averted her glance as if in proud
determination to show no curiosity. Rouge had been applied to her
cheeks and her dry lips were a vivid rose color. The high tints showed
ghastly on her withered skin but her dark eyes were scintillant with an
avid burning vitality. It was like a face still holding the colors and
hot warmth of youth suddenly stricken by untimely age.

Williams, halting at the foot of the steps, told her what they
wanted--her position and Miss Saunders’ at the time of the shooting,
going over the ground and making it clear to them. She rose alertly
with a quick understanding nod--she would be glad to, it was her
earnest desire to be of help to them in any way she could. Rawson
noticed that she did not look at her husband but kept her eyes on
Williams with an intent frowning concentration, moving her head in
agreement with his instructions.

At the shore she was eager to explain everything, took her place on the
path where she had been when she saw Sybil appear on the other side of
the hollow. Her rendering of the scene was graphic and given with much
careful detail. The men, grouped about, followed her indicating hand,
stopping her now and then with a question. Stokes stood back watching,
his face in the searching daylight smoothly yellow like a face of wax.

Williams’ questions were many and pointed, and it soon became evident
to Bassett what he had in his mind--that her explanation of her
actions did not account for the length of time she had been on the
shore. Whether she saw it or not he could not tell; checked in her
story she would answer patiently, reiterating her first statement
that her stunned condition had robbed her of the power of thought or
motion. But he was sure Stokes had grasped the trend of the query; he
drew nearer, his flexible lips working, the hand hanging at his side
clenching and unclenching. Once he assayed to speak, a hoarse sound
throttled in escape. It pierced the strained attention she was giving
her questioners, and, for the first time, she hesitated and fumbled for
her words.

When it was over and they returned to the house, Stokes dropped to her
side and drew her hand through his arm. She drooped against him; her
narrow body looked nerveless, as if but for his support it would have
crumpled and sunk. But he planted his feet with a hard defiance, each
step drew a ringing echo from the rocks and he held his head high.
Bassett, following them, noted his rigid carriage, and when he turned
his profile, the wide nostril spread like that of a winded horse.

There was a ghastly lunch. The men of the law ate greedily and without
words. Shine was ashamed that he had any appetite and tried to appease
it with bread which he could extract from the plate in front of him
without notice. There was almost no speech. Miss Pinkney, executing her
duties with an automatic precision, did what waiting was necessary, and
her voice, inquiring their needs and proffering second helpings, broke
desolate expanses of silence.

When it was over Williams and Rawson took up the trail again. They
were now going to direct their attention to the Point, especially the
summer-house, from which a path led to the summit of the bluff whence
Sybil had fallen. Bassett, who had hoped to get a word with Anne, was
bidden to join them, and the three left the house step by step tracing
the passage of the dead girl.

They began with the pine grove. Needles carpeted the ground, slippery
smooth, a beaten trail winding between the tree trunks. Beyond it the
path ascended the bare slope to the summer-house. “No place to hide
here,” Rawson said. “The murderer, if Mrs. Stokes’ story is true, was
either in the open or in the summer-house.” They paused, moved on, bent
for a closer scrutiny of the dry grass, searched for an imprint in the
pebbled walk. Secretive as the rest of the island, the way divulged
nothing. Sybil’s light foot had made no faintest mark, she had gone to
her death leaving no track nor trace.

The summer-house, a small, six-sided building, was covered by a thick
growth of Virginia creeper that swathed its rustic shape. In four of
its walls the vines, matted into a mantle of green, had been cut away
to form windows. Framed in these squares sea and land views were like
pictures brilliantly bright from the shaded interior. The other two
sides held the entrances, one giving on the path that descended to the
pine grove, one to its continuation to the Point. A circular seat ran
round the walls and a table in the same bark-covered wood was the only
movable piece of furniture. This was drawn up against the seat at one
side. Rawson moved it out as the other two ran exploring eyes over the
walls, the door-sills and the floor of wooden planking upon which a few
leaves were scattered.

“Here,” he cried suddenly. “What’s this?” and drew from a crevice where
the legs crossed, some scraps of a coarse gold material.

He held them up against the light of the opening--three short strands
of what might have been the gilt string used to tie Christmas packages.

“What do you know about this?” he said, offering them to Bassett’s
gaze.

Bassett looked, and Williams with craned neck and lifted brows looked
too. They were exactly of a length, broken filaments of thread attached
to the end of each.

“They’ve been torn off something,” Rawson indicated the threads,
“caught in that joint of the table legs and pulled off. Did she have
anything like this on her dress anywhere, a trimming or----”

“Fringe,” Bassett interrupted, “the fringe on her sash.”

“Ah!” Rawson could not hide his exultation. “_Now_ we’ve got something
we can get our teeth into.”

“Yes.” Bassett took the pieces and studied them in the light. “That’s
what it is. She wore a wide sash round her waist with ends that hung
down edged with gold fringe. This is a bit of it.”

“Well,” said Williams, “that’s a starter anyhow. She was in here.”

Rawson sat on the bench and drew the table into its former position:

“It not only proves she was in here, but it proves a good deal more.
This is the way she was, with the table as we found it close in front
of her. The ends of her sash would have been in contact with the table
legs. Now she jumped up quickly--do you get that? If she’d gone slow or
had time to think she’d have felt the pull and unloosed the sash--but
she sprang up, didn’t notice.” He looked from one to the other, his
lean face alight.

“Frightened,” said Bassett.

“So frightened she didn’t feel it, and moved with such force she tore
the fringe off. That scare took her up from the seat and sent her
flying through the doorway for the Point.”

“Hold on now,” said Williams. “If she was as scared as that why didn’t
she go for the house where there were people?”

“Because she was too scared to think. Some one with a pistol was on the
other side of the table.” He rose and went to the entrance facing the
Point. “And the person with the pistol shot at her from here--winged
her as she ran.” He turned to Bassett. “That’s why you saw no one when
you looked out after you first heard the shot. The murderer was in here
lying low.”

“Yes.” Bassett thought back over the moment when he had stood in the
living-room doorway. “That’s the only place he could have been or I’d
have seen him. But they wouldn’t have been any time together--couldn’t
have had a quarrel or a scene. According to Mrs. Cornell it was only
six or seven minutes after she saw Sybil go out that she heard the
shot. That would give them only two or three minutes in here.”

“Time enough to draw a gun and back it up with a few sentences. It
bears out what I’ve thought from the start--not an accidental meeting
but a date, to which the woman came unsuspecting and the other primed
to kill.”

“Then Mrs. Stokes got on to that date,” said Williams, “and broke
in on it. And there’s only one person that date could have been
with--Stokes.”

Bassett’s nerves were raw with strain and anxiety. This reiteration of
a rendezvous with Stokes maddened him:

“But it couldn’t have been. I’ve told you. I knew Miss Saunders well.
I know what she felt about the man, and besides I have the evidence
of my own eyes that she avoided him in every way she could. Make an
appointment to meet him alone! She’d as soon make an appointment with
Satan.”

Neither of the men answered him for a moment. Williams regarded his
sentiment with respect. He had been a friend of the dead girl’s and
it was natural he should stand up for her, whether rightly or wrongly
Williams was not yet sure. Rawson was impressed; he had formed a high
opinion of the director’s candor and truthfulness and his words weighed
with him:

“I go a good deal by what you say, Mr. Bassett, and as to this meeting
of which I’m convinced--whom it was with I don’t know. Williams here
has made up his mind and worked out his case. I don’t agree with
him. I believe Mrs. Stokes is telling the truth. What she says hangs
together all right. I think her explanation of the passage of time when
she was on the shore is entirely plausible. That she may know something
is possible, but I don’t think she’s guilty.”

“Then you must think it’s Stokes,” said Williams with some heat.
“There’s nobody else it could be.”

Rawson considered before he spoke:

“I don’t see Stokes as deliberately murdering the woman he was in love
with. That’s generally an act of impulse, sudden desperation. And
there was no impulse here. Careful premeditation--the stealing of the
revolver, luring her to this summer-house, the threats or rage when she
got here that made her fly. It’s more like the working out of revenge
than the act of blind passion. Stokes doesn’t look to me the kind of
man that would kill so carefully. He’s too soft.”

“Then who is it?” Williams exclaimed. “Somebody killed her.”

Rawson moved toward the doorway:

“That’s about all I’m willing to agree to at present. But I’d like to
see Stokes again. He and his wife may know more than they say--I don’t
deny _that_--but she’s got a better nerve than he has. We’ll get him
into the library and have a whack at him.”