THE performance was over and the audience was dispersing. Gull Island,
colored to a chromo brightness by the declining sun, had not showed so
animated an aspect since the reception for the Spanish ambassador last
July. People in pale-tinted summer clothes were trailing across from
the open-air theater and massing in a group as gay as a flower garden
at the dock. Some of them had gone into the house, taken the chance to
have a look at it--when the Driscolls were “in residence” you couldn’t
so much as put your foot on the rocks round the shore. Others lingered,
having a farewell word with the actors, congratulating them--it was the
right thing to do and they deserved it. The committee was very affable,
shaking hands with Mr. Bassett the director and Miss Saunders the star,
who, in her page’s dress with the paint still on her face, looked
tired, poor girl, but was so sweet and unassuming.

It had been a complete success. The matrons who had organized it
scanned the crowd converging toward the dock and smiled the comfortable
smile of accomplishment. The summer home for tenement children could
build its new wing and employ that man from Boston who had such modern
scientific methods. And the matrons, stiff in the back and unbecomingly
flushed after sitting two hours in the sun on the stone seats of
the theater, drew toward one another on the wharf and agreed that
everything had gone off beautifully and the board should at once write
to Mr. Driscoll and thank him for lending the island.

The fleet of boats, rocking gently on the narrow channel that separated
Gull Island from the mainland, took on their freight and darted off.
They started in groups then broke apart. Speed boats that had come from
points afar, whizzed away with a seething rush and a crumple of crystal
foam at the bow. The launches skimmed, light-winged, the white flurry
of their wakes like threads that stretched back to the island.

People turned and looked at it--sun-gilded in an encircling girdle
of Prussian blue sea. The rocks about its base, the headlands that
rose above, were dyed to an orange red and against this brilliancy of
primary colors the pines stood out darkly silhouetted. On the rise
above the wharf the long brown structure of the house spread, rambling
and irregular, built, it was said, to suggest an outgrowth of the rocky
foundation. The watchers could see in the open place beyond the side
balcony the actors standing motionless, spaced in a group. Yes, having
their photographs taken; there was the camera man who’d been taking
pictures during the performance. And they craned their necks for a last
look at the lovely scene and the picturesque assemblage of players.

Part of the flotilla carried the Hayworth villagers--all-year residents
of the little town on the mainland. Some of the more solid citizens
were in the launch that old Gabriel Harvey owned, which had been used
by the actors in their week’s stay. Hayworth had gathered a great deal
of information about these spectacular visitors, some from Gabriel and
some from Sara Pinkney who was Mr. Driscoll’s housekeeper, living in
Hayworth all winter and in summer reigning in the Gull Island kitchen.
Mr. Driscoll had wired Sara to go over and open up and take charge
while they were there--spare nothing, those were his orders. And Sara
had done it, not wanting to, but apart from its being Mr. Driscoll’s
wishes which she had followed for the last ten years, she had felt it
her duty to keep an eye on the property. Every day she came over to
Hayworth for supplies and had to appease the local curiosity, which she
did grudgingly, feeling her power.

Now at last the Hayworth people had had a first-hand view of the
actors--the whole company, dressed up and performing--and they fitted
Sara Pinkney’s description to them. Olivia, that was Miss Tracy,
the one she said was so refined and pleasant-spoken. And the Duke
was Alexander Stokes. He was the feller that had come after the
others because the first man took sick--wonderful the way he did it
considering, didn’t miss a word. And the woman who stood round and
“tended on” Olivia was his wife. Sara hadn’t said much about her. Well,
she wasn’t of much importance anyhow or she’d have had more acting to
do. But that boy who was Viola’s twin, he was Miss Tracy’s brother, and
Sara had said he and Miss Saunders didn’t get on well, _she_ could see
it though they didn’t say much. And here piped up the butcher’s wife
who was more interested in the play than in personalities:

“I don’t see how Olivia took him for the page she was in love with. He
didn’t look like Viola in the face. She was real pretty, but he’d a
queer sly mug on him, that boy.”

“Aw, you can’t be too particular. You don’t need to have it so real.”

“I guess she was meant to be blinded by love. And him dressed the same,
hair and all, might lead her astray.”

“I don’t see how you could have ’em look just alike unless they’d get
an actress who had a real twin brother, and maybe you’d go the whole
country over and not find that.”

“He ain’t like her no way,” growled old Gabriel from the wheel, “I seen
’em both when they wasn’t acting and he’s an ugly pup, that one.”

Then the boat grating on the Hayworth wharf, Gabriel urged them off. He
hadn’t got through yet, got to go back for part of the company who were
calculating to get the main line at Spencer, and after that back again
for the Tracy boy. He muttered on as they climbed out, grumbling to
himself, which nobody noticed as it had been his mode of expression for
the last thirty years.

The swaying throng of boats emptied their cargoes and the thick-pressed
crowd, moving to the end of the wharf, separated into streams and
groups. Farewells, last commending comments, rose on the limpid
sea-scented air. Everybody was a little tired. The villagers, dragging
their feet, passed along the board walks to their vine-draped piazzas.
They would find their kitchens hot and dull that night after two
hours in the enchanted land of Illyria. The waiting line of motors
absorbed the summer visitors, wheeled off and purred away past the
white cottages under the New England elms. The matrons sank gratefully
upon the yielding cushions, rolling by the dusty buggies, the battered
Fords, the lines of bicycle riders, into the quiet serene country
where the shadows were lying long and clear. Yes, it had been a great
success; from first to last there hadn’t been a hitch.