Professor Hiram Dexter put the finishing touches on his toilet by
tenderly brushing out his crisp, black Vandyke beard. He stepped back
to look at himself in the mirror. He had to stoop a little for even the
full-length glass was short for his six feet four inches of gangling
height. Nevertheless he regarded his image with undiluted satisfaction.

"Ah, Dexter," he sighed, "you're a dashing rascal."

Humming tunelessly, for he was quite tone-deaf, he picked up a book
titled, "The Nutritive Quotient, Vitamin Factors And Trace Elements of
Protein-High Diets," put his hat on, the light out, and left the house.

Outside, a spring night hovered tenderly over the campus of Fredonia
College. The darkness was alive with the richness of new grass,
the vagrant perfumes of verbena, alyssum, calendula, nemophila and
ageratum, not to mention lobelia, mignonette, nicotiana, scabiosa,
Kochia and salpiglossis. He knew them all and loved every Latin
syllable.

His nostrils dilated with pleasure as he strode, with a loose, almost
clanking motion, along the concrete paths. It was a night for romance,
for tender, whispered discussions of vitamins and tissue regeneration,
of gamma rays and the atom.

Professor Dexter's heart welled with the rich pathos of life. As
straight as the curving paths would allow, he headed directly for the
neat brick house where dwelt his lady love: Professor Clarissa Wilkins,
of the Domestic Science Department.

At the foot of her steps, a shadow loomed out of the dark. It was a
very short, barrel-shaped shadow. Prof. Dexter leaned over from his
great height, to peer at it.

"Ah--is that you, Donald?" he queried.

"Who were you expecting?" snapped the tubby shadow peevishly.
"Hirohito?"

Professor Donald Curtis was in almost every way the opposite of his
friend Hiram Dexter. He was five feet two inches in his elevator shoes
and his circumference was better than that by two or three inches. He
was as quick, and jumpy in his movements as a chipmunk and he seemed to
buzz around the taller, slower-moving man like an irritated bumble-bee.
Nevertheless they were fast friends, rivals only in their physics
research--and for the hand of Professor Clarissa Wilkins.

They turned and ascended the steps together. Professor Curtis clutched
to his plump bosom a book titled: "A Statistical History of the
Nutritional Influence Upon Intelligence of the Child From One to Six."
Neither were Greeks, but they both came bearing gifts subtly slanted to
their beloved's tastes.