Working feverishly, they completed the job in a week. Two identical
machines stood near each other on the lab floor, shining cathode tubes
poised like a pair of futuristic ray guns.

In all this time they had no word from Professor Clarissa Wilkins.

"Probably baking cookies for Jake Donahue," Dexter said bitterly.

"If he eats enough of them he'll get fat and lose his figure," Curtis
said. "But it would take too long."

They finished early one afternoon and by common consent made their
plans to go through with the experiment the next morning. Though
neither man would admit it they were just a little scared. They went
home and made their wills. Each left everything they possessed to
Clarissa.

Early the next morning, before the campus was astir with class-bound
students, they met at the laboratory. The grass sparkled with dew and
all the freshness and sweetness of a spring morning tugged at their
hearts. Professor Dexter had circles of sleeplessness under his eyes
and Professor Curtis' chubby face was drawn and haggard.

They entered the laboratory. Professor Dexter set the automatic timers
on both machines. They shook hands gravely, then, unable to find words,
took their places silently under the gleaming eyes of the cathode
tubes. Together they raised their hands and depressed the switches.

Deep in the basement a generator sprang to life and faintly they sensed
the deep rumble of its movement. The Coolidge tubes awoke as the stream
of electrons impinged upon the platinum target plates. And then the
shock of induced rays struck them, sank into them, seemed to flow and
spread to every tissue and cell.

Something was happening to Professor Hiram Dexter. He felt, first of
all, a sudden surge of nausea that rocked him on his long legs. His
stomach twisted and a paralyzing weakness turned his muscles to water
and made the lab swim unsteadily before his eyes.

At the same moment he felt a definite shrinking effect. His limbs
became suddenly heavy. He felt in the grip of a vastly increased
gravity, like a man going swiftly upward in a fast elevator. He was
unable to move because of the strange weight of his arms and legs.

Then, to his horror, he saw the Coolidge tube sliding swiftly up out
of his line of vision. The edge of the lab table came up, passed his
eyeline and began to recede toward the ceiling. He was shrinking, but
too fast and too far!

Even in that moment of undisguised terror, his scientist's mind noted
that his clothes shrank with him. The ray worked on them as well as his
living tissue.

Steadying his reeling vision, he searched wildly for Professor Curtis.
Far across the huge expanse of rough, pitted lumber which the lab floor
had suddenly become, were two shoes the size of the Queen Elizabeth.
From them two colossal legs, each like the Washington Monument, soared
into the sky. He could see only just past the knees. The rest of the
torso loomed into the distance. The ceiling was unthinkable distances
beyond.

There came the click of the automatic timer. The power went off and
the Coolidge tube subsided into lifelessness. The potent stream of
electrons ceased.

Slowly the nausea lifted. He could breathe again. He stared around
him, terrified at the huge, strange cavern he was in. Judging from the
apparent girth of chair legs and similar objects near him, he was about
three inches tall! The fleeting thought crossed his mind. If a mouse
should come across him now! What a terrifying carnivore it would be!

But this was not the worst. He could not move. At first the dreadful
thought came that the rays had somehow paralyzed him. But there was no
numbness in his muscles. They were simply too heavy to lift themselves.
He stood as immobile as though he had been nailed to the floor.

Across the room Professor Curtis was having his troubles. The ceiling
had shot down to him as it had to Alice-In-Wonderland when she had
drunk the little bottle labeled, "Drink Me."