Professor Dexter pressed the doorbell and a muted chime rang softly
within. The door opened and light bathed them, pressing back the soft
darkness of the spring night.

"Good evening, Professor," Professor Dexter said, beaming at the lady
in the doorway.

"Good evening, Professor," Professor Curtis echoed, smiling broadly.

"Oh, it's you," Professor Wilkins said. If this had been the South she
would have said you-all.

Clarissa was an energetic spinster in her forties with snapping black
eyes, graying hair drawn into a neat, no-nonsense bun at the back
of her head and the most remarkable grasp of bio-chemistry of any
woman alive. Professors Dexter and Curtis admired her intellectual
attainments extravagantly and mistook the admiration for love.

She let them in, accepted their gifts with a murmured thanks and waved
them vaguely to chairs. She seemed a little absent-minded, a bit
distracted this evening.

Professor Dexter cleared his throat.

"A most amusing thing happened in class today," he began. "I was
lecturing--"

"That was amusing enough," Professor Curtis snapped testily.
"Professor--er--Clarissa," he said daringly, "referring to the
Stefansson experiments in living on meat alone for a year--"

"By the way," interrupted Professor Dexter, "I don't see any of
those--er--those delicious cookies you make so well, Professor.
Those--ah--little brown ones with the chocolate chips in them."

He was peering around anxiously.

A flicker of emotion crossed Clarissa's face, but was gone at once. She
rose.

"I'll get them."

She returned bearing a plate heaped high with crisp, crunchy,
chocolated cookies. The professors' eyes lighted. They reached.

Professor Dexter hurried into the conversational breach, impolitely not
even waiting for his mastication to cease.

"A most amusing thing happened in class today," he repeated.

The doorbell chimed.

Anticipation lighted up Professor Wilkins' cool gray eyes. She went to
the door and presently returned with a man in tow.

"Professor Dexter, Professor Curtis, you know Mr. Donahue, our athletic
director."

They knew Jake Donahue. They did not approve of mere muscle, without
mind. They gave his powerful, athletic figure, his rugged, square-jawed
face a disapproving glance.

"How d'ye do?" they said.

"Hi!" said Jake Donahue.

He sat down. Clarissa transferred the plate of cookies to his side.
He munched. And a surprising thing happened. Mere muscle could never
triumph over intellect, yet the Professors Dexter and Curtis found
themselves pocketed, side-tracked and elbowed aside.

The conversation was of football, racing, track, crew, basketball,
pole-vaulting, shot-putting, boxing, swimming, wrestling, baseball,
not to neglect tennis, skeet-shooting, ice-skating, skiing, horseback
riding, lacrosse, bob-sledding, jai-alai, handball and billiards.

They took it for an hour. Then they folded their tents like the Arabs
and as silently withdrew. The final blow was that Clarissa hardly
seemed to know they were departing.

Defeated, they stared at one another, when outside. The spring night
was still fulsome with perfume and romance. But the joy had gone from
their hearts, the glamour was an empty, mocking shell.

"This may be new to us, Professor, but it is a familiar thing," Curtis
said as they began to walk down the path. "The female of the species
wishes to be conquered. Hence, whatever her intellectual endowments,
instinct triumphs over intellect and she succumbs to the animal
magnetism of brute force."

"But it's Clarissa!" Professor Dexter said weakly.

"Even Clarissa. Oh, of course if she married him she would soon awake
to her horrible mistake. She would weary of an endless conversation
about basketball and foot racing. She would yearn for the rarified
heights of our discussions. But it would be too late."

"We must rescue her from this tragic error, Professor," Dexter said
firmly.

"Yes," Curtis agreed. "How? Did you ever try to change Clarissa's mind?"

"Uh--once." Professor Dexter shuddered at the memory. "It was worse
than my fraternity initiation--which I still remember with revulsion
after twenty-six years."