They were two weeks and five days on their way. McCauley shook his
head to clear his mind. He reread what he had just written in the
ship's log, vaguely puzzled because it did not seem to make sense. With
enormous effort he checked each word and found that he had left one
out here and another one there. With great determination he put them
in. Somewhere in his mind there was a feeling that he needed to do
something very urgently, but he could not think what it was.

"Randy," he said, and something in his brain noted that his voice was
plaintive, "I can't seem to think straight! There's something I ought
to do! What is it?"

Randy shook his head. He floated in the straps of his acceleration
chair; not that the chair was needed, but because it held him still so
that there was no possible chance of his striking against the unmuffled
wall of the ship and so sending a solid-conduction sound back to
Bramwell.

"I don't know," said Randy flatly. "I don't feel too bright myself."

The soundproof door of the after compartment opened. Bramwell came out.
Somehow he looked pathetic and frustrated, but he essayed rage.

"I have to have silence!" he cried ferociously. "You are making noises!
I cannot think! And I must think! I have to have silence!"

McCauley said numbly:

"I'm sitting here, and Randy's in his chair. There's no noise."

"There is noise, or why can't I think? You are doing something to keep
me from thinking!... That canary! It has been singing! That's it! You
must wring its neck so I can think!"

"No," said McCauley, "it hasn't been singing. It hasn't sung for a
long time. It did, but it doesn't any more. Why?"

"Something is the matter!" insisted Bramwell desperately. "I'm stupid!
I'm as stupid as you! And I must use my brains!"

"You've got everything we can give you," said McCauley without
particular emphasis. "We can't seem to do our work right either."

"There is some new condition we do not know about," Bramwell said, in
a sort of puny panic. "There is something in space which is working to
destroy us! Here! Send this message back to Earth!" McCauley took the
slip of paper on which words were written in an erratic, spidery hand.
"But _I_ think you are making noises!"

Bramwell pulled himself back into his soundproof half of the ship. The
door closed behind him, but not quite in time to cut off the beginning
of an agitated whimpering sound.

McCauley pushed the beam-on button. He should have checked the time,
Earth time, to see if Canaveral were on the side of Earth from which
it could pick up the beamed message from space. It wasn't, but he
didn't think to check. He read, in a monotone, the message Bramwell had
written out:

    _I feel the purpose impossible probable effect similar to X-rays
    with this is vital to further but I have no instruments._

                                                            _Bramwell._

He was vaguely puzzled but he read it faithfully. Then, without
checking for reception, he turned off the transmitter. He went back
to the painful task of trying to make the ship's log entry at which
he'd been working for a long time. He assured himself that though the
message did not mean anything to him, they'd understand it back on
Earth.

But they didn't. It didn't get back to Earth. The Venus ship had been
pointed very accurately so that the parabolic reflector for the tight
beam to Earth was perfectly aligned. But Bramwell had protested the
faint, faint hum of the gyros which kept the ship pointed correctly.
McCauley had turned them off. He'd meant to re-align the ship for each
period of communication, but his mind was confused and he forgot.

Earth had received no message from the Venus ship for six days past.
There was consternation in the Space Service.

It wouldn't have lessened any had Bramwell's message been picked up.
He'd meant to say that he felt that achievement of the Venus ship's
purpose was impossible because of something which doomed the men in
it. He thought it probable that some previously unnoticed effect of
radiation, perhaps similar to X-rays, was destroying their capacity to
think. This effect should be studied. It was vital to further space
exploration. But he had no instruments that could detect it.