Quartermain Base was built on a flat, flat plain that extended miles
in every direction. Its buildings, from a reasonable distance, were
only toy structures, tiny angular objects in the middle of vastness.
Overhead there was a sky of absolute blue. It was empty. Below, there
was flatness to the horizon. It contained nothing. There was no motion
of any sort anywhere. The base lay still and silent under the baking
two-o'clock sun. Nothing happened. Nothing....

No. Something was happening. Specks moved out of the miniature
buildings. Dots rolled out of the infinitesimal garages. The dots and
the specks seemed to mill about uncertainly and then to come to a
restless, not-quite stillness. It seemed that something was expected
to happen. But there was nothing that could. There was only a great
emptiness and a great stillness....

But then there came a faint roaring. It was very faint indeed. It
strengthened, and diminished, and strengthened again.

Then a mote appeared in the sky. It came down and down and down,
bellowing. The bellowing was the unmistakable sound of ramjets. And
the thinnest of high-pitched sounds arose from the specks which were
men outside the buildings at the base. The sounds were howls of
triumph, shrieks of rejoicing, of gladness that the impossible had been
accomplished.

The X-21 came wabbling down out of the sky and leveled off a bare
hundred feet above the pebbly plain. It lowered, and lowered, and
suddenly yellow dust spouted furiously where its wheels had touched.
The roaring cut off. The ship rolled and rolled. Later, it would
develop that less than one quart of ramjet fuel remained to be burned
before it hit ground.

Shouting, swarming men rushed toward it. Dots which were trucks and
cars raced to greet it.

Presently McCauley saluted very formally, standing before a general
whose cap was badly ripped on one side.

"Sir," he said, "it looks like we did it. And I'd like to say, sir,
that I am very proud to have had Major Furness with me. He's hurt, sir,
as I radioed to Hawaii. The ambulance is rushing him to hospital. But
he stuck to his job throughout, sir, and I'll be obliged if you'll tell
his son that he should be very proud of his father."