At 1400 hours on Tuesday a hundred and eighty feet of streamlined,
fire-spouting metal plunged skyward from Cape Canaveral. At eighty
thousand feet, the first stage dropped off; at seventy miles, the
second stage. The third stage, which was the Venus ship, went whipping
on out into space. It circled Earth once, gradually overtaking the
Space Platform as it floated serenely in emptiness three thousand miles
out from the Earth's surface. With tiny, finicky jettings of rocket
fuel, and the use of steam-jets for final maneuvering, McCauley brought
the Venus ship into contact with the Space Platform.

There was swift and efficient action. Men in space suits swarmed out
of the brilliantly sunlit, faceted artificial moon. They connected
fuel hoses and topped off the Venus ship's tanks. They floated a
second-stage unit out and bolted it in place. They painstakingly got
a giant first-stage unit out of the ship lock and set it where it
belonged. At the Space Platform, the Venus ship regained the fuel and
the ability to accelerate that it had used up getting there.

One and a quarter hours after contact, McCauley reported back to
Canaveral that all was well, that Doctor Bramwell was in excellent
condition and making no complaints, and that all instruments and
equipment had functioned perfectly during the trip from Earth. Then he
backed the reenlarged Venus ship away from the Platform.

There was a long, long pause while he adjusted the nose of the ship
with micrometric accuracy to an exact, particular spot and made sure
that it stayed there. The ship had drifted a good mile from the
Platform when he stabbed home the rocket-firing button.

As usual, the instantly following sensation was that of a roof falling
in on one and several other roofs falling in on top of it. The Venus
ship accelerated for seventy-eight seconds, its nose pointed sunward.
McCauley'd set the rocket timer for that length of firing.

When the rockets died, he floated weightless in a ship which had no
weight. His head tried to split wide open and let his aching brains run
out. His hands were puffy and swollen. His eyes felt as if they were on
fire. Beside him, Randy groaned and then growled.

"Doggone the man who invented rockets," said Randy painfully.

"See how Bramwell's doing," grunted McCauley. "I've got to see how we
made out."

His headache went slowly away as he checked the ship's line of motion
against Earth, growing small behind him, and Venus and the sun ahead.
It was reasonably satisfactory. He checked the ship's velocity by
the inertia computer and by a tight-beam query back to Earth. His
query went back on microwave with a beautifully accurate piezocrystal
regulating his frequency. His speed could be determined by the Doppler
effect. Both the inertia computer and the Doppler reading indicated
that his velocity would need a slight boost later. A time and duration
of rocket firing would be computed. So far, though, so good.

"We'd better set up housekeeping," said McCauley. "How's Bramwell?"

"Pulse and respiration okay," reported Randy. "But I bet he busts a
button when he wakes up."

McCauley eased out of his acceleration chair. He ached in every bone
and muscle from the effects of the two successive take-offs. But he
cast an accustomed eye about the ship. It was not a big ship, and
Bramwell's stipulated soundproof cabin took up a large part of it. It
was, actually, not much more than an oversized moonship. But there were
features to be arranged that the short-voyage ships from Earth to moon
did not bother with.

McCauley floated over to the packed-up air system. In a space voyage
up to a week in length, it is as economical of weight to carry air as
to purify it. But the Venus shoot would last much, much longer than
a week. So McCauley unpacked the air system. The vegetation had been
padded lest it be bruised or broken in the take-offs. He set up the
unit and started the hydroponic pump. Randy adjusted the drinkables
unit. McCauley set out meals to thaw, in readiness for dinner. Randy
put the sanitary facilities and the waste-disposal unit in operation.
In effect, the ship had had to be decommissioned as a livable vessel
while it was being flung out from Earth as a projectile. Now, in far
space and going even farther, the two men transformed it into one
of those specialized environments that supply men in emptiness with
everything they require except day, night, weight, up, down, normal
sounds, and a feeling of belonging where they are.

One homey touch appeared before the recommissioning of the ship
was complete. McCauley opened a very small box and took from it an
infinitesimal yellow object that stirred as he handled it. It was a
tiny canary which had been stowed in the equivalent of a canary-sized
acceleration chair. Now it struggled desperately in his hand.

"You'll do, Mr. Perkins," said McCauley. "You're all right!"

He put the panting little creature--Mr. Perkins--into a cage hardly
larger than itself. It let out a bewildered chirp when he released it.
It struggled wildly, in panic because there was no up or down. McCauley
captured it and put its groping claws against the perch. They gripped
it. He set up a curiously intricate device inside the cage.

"He'll do," he said in satisfaction. "And it looks as if his
food-and-water system is going to work, even in no-gravity. That was a
job to design!"

He checked two larger devices with extreme care. One was the
flare-particle counter, designed to make an audible click for every
hundred, every thousand, or every ten-thousand flare-particle
penetrations registered. McCauley set it for hundreds. It clicked every
three or four seconds, which was a high concentration but still within
the tolerance limit. The other device was the oxygen-supply flutter
valve. The plants in the air system would absorb carbon dioxide from
the air as the men's breaths produced it, and release oxygen to replace
it. But it was not quite a hundred per cent replacement. From time to
time more oxygen had to be added from storage tanks to keep the air
volume constant and the oxygen percentage right. The flutter valve took
care of all this. It made a curiously irritable, buzzing sound when it
worked.

The ship went on. Ahead and off to the right lay the steady,
last-quarter crescent of Venus. Above and below and on every hand
there were stars. Nobody on Earth ever sees the stars as they appear
in space. At the bottom of Earth's atmosphere, the keenest eye can
see no more than three thousand stars at any one time. Out here one
could count as many in a circle no larger than the sun's disk. They
shone in innumerable colors. The Milky Way was not a filmy mist across
the heavens, but a ribbon of jewels set in pure light; Earth was a
glamorous blue-green gem with white spots at its top and bottom, and
the moon was a shining smaller circle.

Randy looked outside, as McCauley did. Then Randy yawned, to hide the
awe that every man feels when he looks upon the immensity that men
impertinently intend to conquer.

"Well, now," said Randy. "We're well started and maybe a bit of a nap
is sensible. Anyhow, Bramwell's sleeping sweetly. Should I loose him?"

"Wait till he wakes," said McCauley. "Things feel pretty good," he
added.

Randy was silent, and they savored the feel of the ship together.
It was strictly a feeling for technically-minded men. There were
innumerable instruments, and all of them registered well within the
limits of what it was proper for such instruments to read. The ship was
on course, floating in immensity. It had ample reserves of fuel. It had
left the Space Platform with all its take-off-from-Earth fuel replaced.
Besides, having been launched from the Platform at the proper instant,
it had the Platform's orbital speed converted to sunward velocity and
reinforced by blasts from the new first-stage booster which was not yet
fully expended. The replaced second-stage had not been touched, and
there was a third stage in reserve. The air system was functioning. The
oxygen flutter valve made a consoling noise toward the ship's stern. It
sounded like a staccato Bronx cheer. There was plenty of oxygen stored
under tremendous pressure. There were resources of food. And there was
all the equipment that Bramwell could possibly need for the development
and replacement of the ship's present Bramwell-Faraday screen, so that
men could stay in space and go farther and farther from home.

It was while they felt the fine contentment of men with a job to do and
the material for doing it that Bramwell awoke. At the beginning he was
starkly bewildered. He remembered drinking his glass of orange juice
the night before. But he remembered nothing more until he found himself
trussed up in an acceleration chair, in no-weight, in space, in the
one situation he'd been unable to nerve himself to face.

When he realized what had happened to him, he went into blind,
screaming, fighting hysterics.