The deep, dark, abysmally black night had fallen. Low down at the
western horizon Earth hung, blue-green and glamorous, just above the
crests of many ring mountains. It was a little past first quarter, and
it gave only the faintest of light to the tortured and splintered rock
formations outside Grimaldi Base. When Earth was full, there would be
bright earthlight on the moon, and the moon's surface would look much
stranger than any painter of fantastic pictures could imagine.

Inside the base, McCauley was going toward his office when a hand
touched his arm. It was Kent. He looked forbidding and grim.

"I'd like to speak to you, sir," he said formidably.

McCauley waved him into the tiny office and closed the door.

"What's it all about?" he asked. He touched a switch and a desk light
glowed. He touched another, but nothing in particular seemed to happen.
"I've forgotten," he said mildly, "any unpleasant things I may have
felt it necessary to say a few hours ago."

"It's Holmes, sir," said Kent, his lips tightly pressed together. "He
didn't play fair, sir. When we split that extra air tank he cheated on
it. He gave me more than he took himself. And when I was stuck with an
avalanche ready to finish me any second, he...."

His voice rose shrilly. He complained bitterly that Holmes had saved
his life at least four times.

"He had to," McCauley pointed out. "I said I'd court-martial whichever
of you came in, if one came in alone."

"That's the devil of it," said Kent bitterly. "He didn't do it that
way! He didn't do it grudgingly. Doggone him, he made me ashamed! If
it weren't that I'm hanged if I'll ask any man to overlook things like
I've done to him--and he's done to me--if I wouldn't be asking him to
overlook so much, I'd...."

McCauley waited. But Kent did not finish. Instead he said savagely:

"As a matter of self-respect, sir, I have to report that Holmes ought
to be commended officially for several acts beyond the call of duty,
sir--and for a man he hates and who has hated him. That's all, sir!"

He turned to go out.

"Hold it!" McCauley spoke sharply. "You will listen to something.
This is an order!" He threw a switch and said: "I recorded your
recommendation, Kent. But you will listen to this!"

There was that minute whirring noise a tape recorder makes when it's
beginning its run. Kent stiffened. A voice came out of a speaker. But
it was not Kent's voice, it was Holmes'. And Kent, staring, heard
Holmes saying stiltedly and urgently that Kent had behaved in a highly
admirable manner that rated official commendation. He'd risked his life
for Holmes on several occasions, and if it weren't that he wouldn't ask
any man to forgive him things like he'd done to Kent....

McCauley snapped off the recorder. The sound ceased.

"Holmes came in here first," said McCauley dryly. "His and your
recommendations will have due attention. And I'm not going to suggest
that you go and shake hands with him, but I think he might like it."

Kent's mouth opened and closed.

"B ... but ..." he stammered.

"Get out of my office!" roared McCauley. "I've got work to do!"