They were three weeks out from Earth. The Bramwell-Faraday screen was
turned up to full strength, and still the radiation counter clicked
and clicked. It now indicated a higher frequency of radiation-particle
penetration than was experienced in any of the Van Allen bands around
Earth. Bramwell was a pitiable figure. Enough of his mental capacity
remained to inform him of his intellectual degeneration. Now and again
he popped into the forward part of the ship, trying to catch McCauley
or Randy at some activity that was stealing his brain power away. When
he failed to do so, he reacted with rages that would have been alarming
except that he had not the energy for anything more than words.

McCauley struggled against a massive indifference. One part of his
mind stood aside and knew that the occupants of the ship were doomed,
but he could not care. Mr. Perkins no longer moved about its cage.
Its feathers fluffed, the bird might be dead on its perch. McCauley
tried painstakingly to write up the ship's log, but what he wrote
was confused, meaningless. Even his handwriting grew steadily more
illegible.

Then, at three weeks and one day, the leak alarms rang stridently. They
made a frightful clamor all over the ship. The few compartment doors
closed tightly.

"Leak," muttered McCauley to himself. "Prob'ly meteorite. Got to get in
suit and fix leak...."

Fighting an overwhelming lethargy, he floated toward the space suit
rack, missed it by yards, doggedly made his way back to it, and numbly
began to get into a suit. Randy worked at the same task. He stopped to
rest.

"Randy," said McCauley protestingly. "Get in suit! Leak!"

He himself was incredibly feeble. Had there been weight in the ship, he
could not have lifted his helmet to his head. He settled it over his
shoulders, but his fingers failed to turn the thumbnuts tight. Even so,
there was the familiar feel of air blowing across his face.

Strength came to him. Not instantly, but with the first breaths of
air from the suit tank his head seemed to clear a little. After more
breaths, his hands moved assuredly. He began to realize the change
in himself and gulped down deep lungfuls of the dry, curiously
flat-smelling stored air.

Randy hadn't finished getting into his suit; he seemed to have gone to
sleep. But when McCauley approached him in the space suit, Randy's eyes
turned toward him incuriously.

McCauley thrust him into the space suit and clamped down the helmet.
Randy suddenly stared.

"Something's been wrong with the ship's air!" snapped McCauley, feeling
more like himself every second. "It's no good! Breathe deep, Randy!
Breathe deep!"

Randy obeyed. His eyes cleared.

"Bramwell!" snapped McCauley. "Get him in a suit! He hasn't sense
enough to do it himself!"

He flung himself at the control board. The leak was....

But there was no leak. The leak alarm had rung, but every pressure
indicator in every part of the ship showed the same figure. It was....
McCauley gazed incredulously at the dials. The ship's interior pressure
was 12.8 pounds to the square inch as against a normal 14.7. The
difference was enough to set off the leak alarm, but a thinning of the
air like this was not enough to cause the stupidity, the lethargy, the
confused and helpless thinking which McCauley--marveling--realized had
appeared during the past three weeks.

He heard a howling noise between the clamors of the gongs. It was
Bramwell.

"You're making a noise!" wailed Bramwell. "I can't have a noise! I must
have quiet...."

McCauley spoke crisply into the transmitter, sending a tight-beam
message back to Earth. It would be minutes before it was received, as
against the less-than-two-second lag in a message sent from the moon to
Earth.

"We were suffering from oxygen starvation," said McCauley briskly. "The
plants in the air-system's hydroponic garden absorbed carbon dioxide
and gave off oxygen, but not quite cent per cent. There was a steady
small loss of oxygen in the ship, caused by the use of oxygen as well
as carbon by the growing plants. This small loss should have been
made up by the addition of oxygen to keep the volume of the ship's
air constant. But it happened that the oxygen flutter valve became
jammed...."

He heard an explosive sigh of relief behind him, but he carefully did
not look up at Bramwell. Bramwell was very silent these days, and he
practiced extreme self-control. He realized now that he'd let too many
things bother him. But he was still bothered, and horribly so, by the
memory of his inability to make up his mind to face the journey in
space, or to arrange for somebody to substitute for him, so he'd had to
be shanghaied. He was even more bothered by the memory of his behavior
when he found himself in a ship off for a swing in to Venus and out
again. McCauley and Randy ignored these past happenings, and Bramwell
would never be able to bring himself to mention them. But he was very
much ashamed.

The thing that disturbed him most, however--the thing that made
him extremely conscientious and extremely self-controlled--was the
consequences of not facing things and of trying to cover up his own
shortcomings. When he got over his hysterics he wanted to get even
with McCauley and Randy by defying them. But he hadn't dared defy them
openly. He'd been peevish and ashamed and humiliated. To him the bronx
cheer of the oxygen flutter valve had seemed a mockery. But he still
felt superior to pieces of machinery. So when the flutter valve went
"_Tht-tht-tht-tht!_" at him, he angrily turned it off. And the human
race almost had to stay on Earth forever because of it. The three of
them came very close to dying.

McCauley continued talking matter-of-factly into the transmitter.

"As a result of the jammed valve, there was a steady lowering of the
oxygen content of the air, but the carbon dioxide content did not
increase. The air was getting closer and closer to pure nitrogen all
the time, but we didn't notice, because a person feels suffocated by an
excess of carbon dioxide rather than by a lack of oxygen. We were all
dying quite comfortably when the leak alarm went off because the air
pressure was dropping as the oxygen left us. When the alarm went off,
we found the trouble and brought the oxygen concentration up to what it
should be. We think there should be no more trouble. In fact...."

He stood up and handed the microphone to Bramwell. Bramwell hesitated a
moment. Then he spoke.

"I have to report that the problem of a stronger Bramwell-Faraday
screen field seems to be solved. This particular accident suggested
a theory. Quite coincidentally, the theory resembled one aspect of
charged-particle theory. It led to an idea. The new screen has a very
gratifying reflex action which uses the velocity of the flare particles
themselves to increase the screen's resistance. The charged particles
are tricked into defeating themselves. I will have a detailed account
of the theory and the apparatus shortly."

Mr. Perkins, in its cage against the wall, burst into song. The canary
began with a trill and went on to a warble; then Mr. Perkins essayed a
glocken. He accomplished it triumphantly. Bramwell scowled at it from
habit. But then he carefully smoothed out his forehead as he handed the
microphone back to McCauley. He nodded at the tiny cage.

"Not bad," he admitted. "Not bad at all!"