Ten days after his assignment to the Venus shoot, Randy came to
McCauley with a sort of grim humor in his expression.

"I took Bramwell over the ship," he said. "Since he's going to live and
work in it, he thought he ought to see it."

"That's reasonable," admitted McCauley.

Randy held up his hand and ticked off on his fingers.

"Item. He drinks a glass of orange juice, a large one, every night
before retiring. A supply of orange juice must be provided."

"All right," said McCauley. "Anything else?"

"Item," said Randy. "He is extremely annoyed by noise. He must have
a working area that is lined with soundproof material and has a
soundproof door so he can have absolute quiet."

McCauley grunted.

"If you can think of anything quieter than space with one's rockets
off.... But okay. What else?"

"Item. He suspects he's allergic to the vegetation in the
air-freshening system," said Randy. "I promised it would be checked."

"We'll make impressive allergy tests for him," said McCauley. "If
that's all...."

"It isn't," said Randy. "He wants a bunk with a hard mattress. He won't
use the acceleration chair except for take-off."

McCauley stared.

"But didn't you tell him?..."

"I," said Randy wryly, "am polishing apples. I want to go on this shoot
even if he does, which means I want to go very badly. No. I didn't
tell him that in free-fall flight with no gravity a steel plate is as
comfortable as a down pillow. Why start an argument with a man in a
blue funk?... He showed me the reference library he insists he has to
take with him. It weighs eight hundred pounds."

"There," said McCauley, "he has to lose! We can't take eight hundred
pounds of excess weight. We simply can't do it!"

Randy grinned.

"I showed him a moon-base microfilm reader and offered him the
equivalent of four tons of books on half a dozen reels. He couldn't
refuse to buy. He only named half a dozen book titles not already on
film, and they're being filmed now."

"Anything else?"

"Not so far," said Randy. "He's scared and ashamed of being scared. I
don't think he'll actually get up nerve enough to back out, but I'm
sure he'll never get the nerve to go. When he finds out the actual
take-off time I look for trouble."

"What kind?"

"Maybe hysterics," said Randy. "I'm almost sorry for the guy, but not
quite. A man with his brains ought to face the fact that he feels
timid, and either fight it or admit it. Especially, a man ought to
realize that other people can tell what's the matter with him."

McCauley considered, frowning.

"For your information only," he said, "take-off will be 1400 hours
Tuesday, neither plus nor minus. We'll have to stop at the Platform
to refuel, and the Platform has a schedule. We'll need to swing very
close to Venus for its pull to change our course, and Venus has a
schedule. And we'll need to meet Earth farther along in its orbit, and
Earth has a schedule. None of them can be changed to humor Bramwell's
psychological idiosyncrasies. We take off at 1400 hours Tuesday!"

But Randy shook his head.

"Oh, oh! Friend Ed, we're in trouble!"

"He won't go?"

"He won't go," said Randy. "I'm just learning how to handle him. I
believed I could trick him into committing himself so firmly that he'd
go, no matter how much something inside of him was screaming that it
didn't want to. But Tuesday's too early. I don't think there's a chance
to get him either to go or admit he won't. Not by Tuesday."

"That's too bad," said McCauley grimly. "We need him for our crew--him
or a reasonable facsimile. Do you know what they used to do when they
needed sailors?"

"Pressed them," said Randy. "Press gangs grabbed them. But that was the
law then. It isn't now."

"I wasn't thinking of a press gang," said McCauley. "Much more often, a
man got shanghaied. We've got to have that souped-up Bramwell screen!"