(Time passed after Ed McCauley became Major Ed McCauley, and most
    people forgot him. If his name was mentioned, someone might say
    vaguely: "McCauley ... McCauley? It seems to me I've heard the
    name." This was because remarkable events don't stay remarkable as
    time goes past. There was a two-hundred-pound satellite circling
    the moon these days, industriously sending back not only pictures
    of the moon's far side, but pictures of cloud masses on Earth which
    told much more about Earth's weather than had been known before. A
    drone missile had gone out to Mars, and its instruments suggested
    that men had better not come out just yet, and other drones had
    gone past Venus and said definitely that men better not come out
    just yet. So something had to be done to make those journeys
    possible. Men had to work in space, testing this and trying that,
    staying days or weeks at a time when solar flare-particles were not
    too much in evidence. This meant that there had to be a place for
    them to live and work. There were plenty of men who'd done
    spectacular things lately, but this needed somebody who would be
    worrying not about fame, but about getting a job done right. So
    Major McCauley received certain orders.)

On as much of the Space Platform as existed so far, a working day
lasted an hour and forty minutes. There wasn't much of the Platform, as
yet. The greatest bulk was a squat, clumsy metal object which had come
up from Earth, pouring out rocket flames, to be the Platform's nucleus.
From it now sprouted spidery, flimsy metal girders which reached out
in apparent aimlessness. They formed an incomplete skeleton of joined
triangles whose final form seemed indefinite. But in time they would
form a most unlikely icosahedron traced in threads of silvery metal in
emptiness. Although the Platform was barely begun, it grew noticeably
as time went by, even though the working day was so brief.

Some people would have challenged the word "day." There was no true
night where the first part of the Platform floated hurriedly in orbit
some three thousand miles out from the planet Earth. There was light
when the sun shone on it, which was two hours and five minutes out of
three hours and seven. Despite Luna, Earth's ancient and untidy moon,
there was abysmal darkness when the Platform plunged into Earth's
shadow. This was not nightfall. When sunlight ended, cut off by Earth's
eight-thousand-mile bulk of stone and metal, the phenomenon was an
eclipse. Once in each revolution about the world which was building it,
the Platform was eclipsed by Earth. When light returned, it was not
sunrise, it was the ending of an eclipse.

McCauley was in charge of the Platform's construction crew, which
consisted of himself--a major--and Randy Hall--a captain--and Sammy
Breen, a second lieutenant in the Space Service. They lived after a
fashion in the cabin of the ship that had brought them and a lot of
building material up and out to the orbit the Platform was to follow.
When a work period ended, they made their way painfully to that cabin.
They made sure that they were inside it before the sun touched the
outer limits of Earth's atmosphere and turned orange and deep-red and
then disappeared, all within ten seconds. It was necessary, for in
Earth's shadow the gossamer-like framework lost heat rapidly. Long
before the end of the eclipse, the temperature of the bare metal
dropped incredibly. Even with Earth nearby to temper it, it fell to
something like two hundred and twenty-odd degrees below zero.

So between work periods there was darkness and unthinkable cold,
and half the universe was brilliant stars--sometimes the moon was
visible--and the other half looked like a hole in emptiness leading to
nowhere. Actually, the seeming abyss was the night side of Earth, and
sometimes Randy or young Lieutenant Breen used the telescope and found
infinitesimal twinklings on it which could be calculated to be London,
or New York, or Paris, or some other metropolis. But the night lights
of cities on Earth were not remarkably bright, from three thousand
miles out in the planet's shadow. Often, too, there were clouds thick
enough to mask any man-made illumination. There was not much to see
from the Platform in darkness and at an early stage of its construction.

But after the darkness there came light.

It was not dawn, of course. It began as a reddish-pinkish line which
precisely outlined a half circle and formed a visible boundary between
absolute blackness and the firmament of stars. The line thickened
at its ends and then at its center. Instantly thereafter the sun
peered--deep-red--around the edge of the planet Earth. It was a
very lively sun. In seconds it reversed the color changes of its
disappearance, fading from ruby to gold and then to the furnace-flame
color it shows out of the atmosphere. And the crescent of lighted Earth
grew broader and broader and suddenly seas and continents and oceans
and islands seemed to come pouring out to cover the darkness, like
creation happening as a flood.

Then, while the partially built Platform swept onward, without sound
or sensation of movement, nothing else happened for a certain time.
The three men inside the cabin waited for the metal to warm up from
the temperature of liquid air. During full sunshine it went up to the
temperature of low-pressure steam. When all the framework was warm
enough so it was no longer brittle, the cabin air lock opened. McCauley
came out in a silvery space suit. Captain Randy Hall followed him.
Lieutenant Sammy Breen came last. McCauley surveyed the framework. Even
a tiny meteorite could do damage, because any such object could be
expected to hit at a velocity of seven to forty miles per second.

But when his inspection was over, McCauley slung a space rope around
a girder, straddled the metal beam, and pulled himself effortlessly
along to its first triangular junction with the other frame members.
He had no weight. Nothing had any weight. One could not fall from the
Platform, but one could very easily become lost from it. McCauley had
acquired a certain fanatical concern about precautions against loss of
contact with the only object within some three thousand miles which
would let a man go on living.

When he reached the first junction of frame members, McCauley unlooped
his space rope from behind the junction, looped it again beyond the
joining place, and crawled over to straddle the next girder and slide
along it with equal absence of effort until he arrived at the place
where he'd left off work a little over an hour before. Randy Hall and
Sammy Breen, meanwhile, emulated him, going in other directions. Within
five minutes of coming out of the air lock they were perched at three
separate places on the absurd framework.

With quite inadequate-looking cords they drew large metal beams
toward them from their place beside the cabin. McCauley, for example,
pulled at a thirty-foot girder with a piece of string. It stirred and
shifted and floated to him. He stopped it, his knees holding him fast.
Then--very clumsily because of its mass--he maneuvered it into place,
slipped bolts through the ready-drilled holes, and tightened up the
nuts. He finished his first girder. Randy completed his. Sammy Breen
got his section in place, and then stopped.

"Major, sir," said his voice via space phone in McCauley's helmet
phones, "there's something wrong here. A bolt doesn't go all the way
through its hole. It won't force. The hole needs to be reamed out."

It was a trivial but annoying happening. The parts for the Space
Platform had been cut out, shaped, and drilled on Earth. In theory they
should fit perfectly together in space. But somebody had scamped on an
inspection job and the result of his carelessness had to be repaired.
It had to be done in a nondescript, crazy framework that was hurtling
along in orbit at something over eleven thousand five hundred miles an
hour. It shouldn't have happened.

"Memorize the part number for report," said McCauley, "and get the
reamer and clear it."

"Yes, sir," said Breen.

McCauley pulled gently at a cord and a second girder stirred and
floated gently toward him.

Below, the sunlit surface of Earth had an extraordinary appearance. It
was some sixty-five degrees in diameter. At its edges the shapes of
land and water--the planetary markings--were foreshortened and crowded
together in an unparalleled fashion. A twelve-inch globe looked at
from five inches away will give something of the same effect. From one
side of the disk the markings moved toward the center, thickening and
taking recognizable form as they neared the middle. Then they went on,
distorted in a different fashion as they approached the opposite edge.
When McCauley set his second beam in place a wildly twisted Isthmus of
Panama appeared out of the misty whiteness which bordered Earth from
where he floated. In half an hour it would be directly underneath and
plainly recognizable. In another half hour it would be a new shape
entirely. Then it would vanish. Only the center of the visible disk
resembled any map-maker's representation, and that spot changed and
changed and changed as the Space Platform hurtled past. At any given
moment McCauley could see a ninth of all the planet's surface, but only
a fraction of what he saw was familiar, and that changed continuously.

Sammy Breen slid along the Platform's frame to the cabin, the ship
which had risen to this place from Earth, but would never return to
Earth again. Arrived at the cabin, he seized a handrail, loosened his
space rope, and pulled himself to the air lock. Immediately, of course,
air would flow into the lock and he could emerge into the cabin's
interior. He'd get the tool he needed for a job that should have been
done on Earth. Then he'd come out again.

Randy tapped on the girder he'd just bolted into place. The vibrations
passed through the metal and through McCauley's space suit to the air
within it.

"I just happened to think," said Randy cheerfully, "that people down
on Earth are all excited about this thing we're building. They think
it's wonderful. And so it is, at the present moment. But I'm thinking
that in a little while it won't be wonderful. It'll be old stuff. And
the day'll come when it's a nuisance. There'll be complaints that it's
in the way, barging around through space. It'll be in the way of ships
taking tourists on week-end trips to Mars. They'll say it's a danger
to astrogation. They'll say it should be cleared out of space. They'll
insist that it be junked."

McCauley grunted. Randy was probably right. But just now McCauley
held himself to a three-by-five-inch hollow metal beam, with a million
million stars shining in all possible colors at the same time as the
sun. He continued to work on, building the Platform that some day would
be considered a nuisance. Three thousand miles away, geographical
features squirmed and twisted themselves in their progress across the
disk of Earth.

"But there'll come a time," said Randy cheerfully, "when one of my
twenty-five-times-removed great-grand-sons will be spanked by his
mother. He'll howl. It will be a very commonplace sort of happening.
The only thing odd about it will be that it won't happen down on old
Earth below us. It'll happen off somewhere on a planet that nobody's
dreamed of yet, circling a sun that nobody's bothered to name, off
yonder somewhere in the Milky Way."

McCauley grunted again.

"You haven't any kids yet, let alone great-great-grand-kids. You're not
even married. Why the sentiment?"

Randy's voice came clearly in the helmet phones.

"I've been trying to think of a reason for me to be here," he
explained, "playing with an oversized Erector set, instead of chasing
some girl down on Earth. And I realized that this Platform, which
will eventually be junked, has to be built before we can hope to
colonize the nearer planets, let alone the stars. So now I know why
I'm here. I'm doing this so my many-times-removed great-grandchildren
can get their spankings all over the galaxy instead of only on the
insignificant earth below. That's a noble purpose! I feel better."

"Good!" said McCauley, with irony.

He felt metallic clankings through the girder on which he was working.
He turned his head within the space helmet. Sammy Breen had come out
of the air lock, guiding himself by a handrail to a position astride a
beam. He slid swiftly along its length. He came to a junction, flipped
his space rope around to the far side of the joining place, swung over,
and slid to the next junction like someone coasting down a stair rail.
He was a cheerful young man, Sammy Breen.

"Sammy," said McCauley, "hold everything. I'll be over."

When people encounter each other only occasionally, there is no
particular need for them to think intensively about each other's
feelings. But three people isolated in an enforced intimacy much closer
than that of cellmates have to take thought. When one of them is
responsible for the other two, tact has to be practiced painstakingly.
When one of the three is a young man who doesn't believe that anything
can happen to him because nothing ever has, the situation calls for
extreme care. McCauley had to use his brains if Randy and Sammy Breen
were to be able to work with him under exacting conditions like these.

He unhooked his space rope, rehooked it past a junction, and pulled
himself toward the place where Sammy Breen had come to a stop. It was,
of course, at a place where two of the frame pieces of the Platform
should join a third. They were to be bolted together and then another
long section of framework would be added, which in turn would have
yet another beam placed and bolted to it so the construction could
continue. At the moment, however, a bolt hole needed to be reamed so
the parts could be bolted together.

McCauley arrived at the corner of a triangle. When linked to all the
others, this triangle would ultimately support the skin and hold the
interior partitions of the Platform. Again he slipped his space rope
over the junction, hooked it, followed it, and went on toward the place
where Sammy Breen was. Sammy's voice came out of his helmet phones.

"I saw a man do this once in a circus," said Sammy. "I thought he was
wonderful. But I can do it!"

McCauley looked up. Sammy Breen had his space rope hooked around the
girder, to be sure. But now he floated, head toward Earth, with one
finger barely touching the metal beam. A photograph would have shown
him apparently supporting his whole weight on a single finger. But here
there was no weight. Nothing drew Sammy toward either Earth or the
Platform. But for his space rope, the lightest thrust of his finger
would have sent him floating slowly, implacably, helplessly away from
the spidery floating object, to drift alone through space forever.

"I hope you checked your rope before you came outside," McCauley said
dryly.

"I did," said Sammy nonchalantly. "It's okay."

He tried to pull himself back to the girder with his fingers. He
couldn't quite reach it. He was no more than half an inch from a
fingertip hold that would have been more than enough, but he couldn't
make it. He reached and reached, and his movements made his body in
its space suit revolve ridiculously upside down and otherwise. Then he
couldn't get his hand anywhere near the girder.

McCauley watched. He was unreasonably tense. But Sammy rather
sheepishly gave a tug on his space rope and floated back to firm
contact with the Platform.

"Not to be finicky about it," said McCauley, "that wasn't wise. There
was only one chance in ten thousand that anything could happen, but
there was no need to take it."

"Yes, sir," said Sammy Breen.

McCauley settled down, three feet from the end of the beam that was to
be bolted to the one that needed reaming. Sammy Breen gripped that beam
between his thighs and hauled the reamer to his hand. At work on the
Platform, in emptiness, a man did not carry things, he towed them on
cords. If he let go of any untethered object it might stay where he put
it, in mid-space, but it was much more likely to have some small motion
relative to his which would make it drift placidly out of reach forever.

Sammy Breen set the reamer in place in the bolt hole and pulled its
trigger. It cut metal. But it dragged unreasonably at him, trying to
turn him in the direction opposite its own rotation. Tiny chips and
metal dust twinkled in the fierce sunshine. They floated away. They
would never fall to Earth. Never. The reamer went through and Sammy cut
off its power. He tried to pull it out. It stuck.

McCauley watched. He'd made a rule that nobody should do anything in
the least out of routine without another man nearby. The three of
them did not work together at one spot ordinarily. In the kind of
conditions customary here, they'd be hopelessly in each other's way.
But he'd issued the order requiring two to be together on any unusual
job. Now, having obeyed his own rule that there must be a second man
at hand when anything beyond simple bolting was to be done, tact made
him keep silent while Sammy did it his own way. Too-close supervision
and too-constant instruction can make for inefficiency. Worse, on a
job like building the Platform, they can make for friction. McCauley
watched without comment. He'd have done this thing differently. But it
would be unwise to insist that it be done his way.

Sammy jerked at the reamer, which meant that he also jerked himself at
it. He slid along the girder he gripped. McCauley said nothing. He'd
criticized Sammy's horse-play a moment earlier. He did not want to make
a second criticism now.

Sammy reached out--it would not be true to say that he stood up--and
put his foot beside the reamer in the bolt hole. The position gave him
leverage. He pulled violently. It was a wholly reasonable, completely
natural, thoroughly matter-of-fact action. A man pulling something
stuck in a hole braces himself exactly that way to get a strong pull at
it. But this was on the Space Platform, where there is no weight.

The reamer gave. It came out abruptly. Sammy Breen shot away from the
beam to the full length of his space rope--and the space rope slid off
the end of the beam. He was headed for infinity with the reamer in his
hand.

McCauley grabbed. He never knew how he managed to make so swift a
motion in his clumsy space suit. But he hurled his body forward and
snatched at the same instant. He caught the rope. But to reach it he'd
had to lose his own leg-grip on the beam. The impetus of Sammy's leap
jerked savagely at him. He squeezed his legs together in a frantic
effort to hold fast by friction. He tried to turn his toes in to catch
hold before he slid completely clear. But the feet of space suits do
not pivot laterally so he could not turn them inward. Holding fast to
Sammy's space rope, he was jerked inexorably clear and he and Sammy
Breen floated away to emptiness together.

It was neither a rapid motion nor a simple one. The jerk had come at an
angle rather than straight out. The two of them revolved slowly around
each other at the two ends of the rope. McCauley held on grimly, braced
for the countervailing tug of his own rope when it tightened.

It did tighten. And then it slid. The spot where Sammy had meant to
bolt two girders together was, naturally, the point where the two
frame members would complete a new triangle. It was to form one of
the triangular facets of the twenty-sided figure the Platform would
constitute when completed. But....

McCauley's rope slid, and caught, and slid again. Then it came free.
Before it came free it had slowed the two of them, to be sure. It
increased the rate of their spin. But it slid off to emptiness and the
two of them went away from the Platform, revolving fairly rapidly about
each other, held together by Sammy's space rope.

Their speed around each other was greater than the speed at which, as a
pair, they were drifting serenely away. At one point in each rotation
one of them approached the Platform while the other moved away from
it. A second later the other spun toward the Platform and the first
one moved toward emptiness. But together they drifted very, very
deliberately toward the stars.

McCauley swore. Then he said curtly:

"Lieutenant!" The use of the term instead of the name was wise.
Sammy Breen might be a horrified young man. But Lieutenant Breen was
something else.

"Sir," said his voice unsteadily in McCauley's headphones, "I'm sorry,
sir. I should have...."

"I'm going to throw you my space rope," snapped McCauley. "You will
catch it and obey my orders."

"Yes, sir."

"Catch!" snapped McCauley.

He threw the rope. Because they were rotating, the first cast was wild.
Sammy Breen wasn't where he threw the rope when it got to him. It had
McCauley's own speed of rotation, so it did not go where he aimed. It
took half a dozen attempts to get the rope to where the younger man
could catch the squirming line in the stiff gauntlet of his space suit.

"Now, fasten your reamer to the rope," commanded McCauley. "Tie on your
other tools. Give me every bit of equipment you've got except your air
tanks."

"Y-yes, sir," said Sammy's voice in the helmet phones.

Spinning as they were, the universe of stars and sun and the vast,
unfamiliar, brilliantly lighted object which was Earth seemed to be
engaged in a monstrous saraband. Now Sammy was a glaringly bright
object with full, blazing sunshine hitting his space suit. Again he
was lighted from the side with the brightness of Earth behind him,
racing past his body with all its features blurred. Yet again the stars
seemed not points of light but streaks, and there were moments when the
sun itself was a flashing band of intolerable brightness. But somehow
this vast and silent motion of the cosmos seemed unreal. It was like a
hallucination. It was like a nightmare in which absolutely nothing was
true; in which there was no actual sun or Earth or stars, because in
reality those things did not swing in lunatic sweeps around anybody,
anywhere.

While the younger man blindly obeyed McCauley, they continued to drift
away toward infinity. Curiously enough, the centrifugal force caused by
their spinning gave McCauley the only sensation of weight that he'd had
since his arrival at the orbit of the Platform.

Randy's voice came in McCauley's headphones.

"Ed! My God!"

His tone was anguished and hopeless.

"Randy," said McCauley in clipped tones. "You can be useful. When we're
in line with you, say 'tip.' Say it again. Keep it up."

Almost instantly Randy said, "Tip." Then, "Tip." Then, "Tip" again.
Sammy Breen said hoarsely:

"All my equipment, sir, is fastened to your space rope. Everything but
my air tanks."

"Right. Now let go of it," commanded McCauley. "Randy, how fast are we
drifting away?"

Randy's voice came hoarse and harsh.

"I don't know. Slowly, but you're a good hundred and fifty feet off. A
trifle more."

McCauley calculated aloud, for his own comfort as well as the
information of Randy and Sammy Breen.

"We've been drifting maybe half a minute. Those 'tips' of yours were
about one second apart. We're spinning once in two seconds at the ends
of a thirty-foot rope. Each of us has an angular velocity of something
over forty feet per second. Forty-five or better. Our joint speed away
from the Platform--a hundred and fifty feet in thirty seconds....
Somewhere around five feet per second. Not much more, anyhow! We're
practically crawling away, but we're spinning like blazes."

Randy said, dry-throated:

"Even if we had rope, Ed, I couldn't get it to you."

"I know," said McCauley curtly. "Lieutenant?"

"Yes, sir," said Sammy Breen's voice, quite steady now. "I've thought
of something, sir. If we act fast and I cut the rope at just the right
instant, sir...."

"Keep quiet!" snapped McCauley. "That's an order! Right now I want you
to push that equipment at the end of my rope away from you as hard
as you can, in the direction we're spinning. The way we're spinning!
You've got too much angular velocity. Understand?"

"Yes, sir," said Sammy. "I'm glad, sir...."

"Keep quiet!" snapped McCauley again. "Push!"

The cumbersome and weighty mass of equipment, which on Earth would have
weighed nearly as much as Sammy Breen, swung away from him. It went
around until it was behind McCauley. There was now a system of three
weights on a string. The middle one, which was McCauley, did not spin
around. He only rotated. The others swung in a wide circle about him.

"Get set, Randy," he said sharply, "and have your rope ready."

"What...." Then Randy understood. He swore.

McCauley let go of Sammy Breen's space rope at an instant when in his
circle around McCauley he moved toward the Platform. At that instant,
of course, McCauley still moved away. But he let go. The result was
that he sent Sammy Breen floating back toward the spidery metal
framework, and he himself moved away faster. In effect, he'd taken
to himself a large part of Sammy's momentum toward destruction. But
not quite all. There was still Sammy's equipment, which formed a new
two-weight system of masses spinning about a common center of gravity.
Yet it did look as if he'd seen the possibility of saving one of the
two of them, and had taken the action which gave that chance at life to
Lieutenant Sammy Breen.

"Major!" Sammy cried out desperately. "This is all wrong! It was my
fault! I should have cut the rope! I protest, sir...."

"Shut up!" rasped McCauley. "Within a minute or two you'll float to the
Platform. It's not likely you'll strike a beam direct. Get ready to
throw your rope to Captain Hall so he can pull you in!"

Now he cut his own space rope and held its end. With Sammy Breen gone
away toward life, he and the mass of equipment at the rope's other
end still had a spinning motion. But it was a slow one. Yet he could
repeat the same trick he'd worked with Sammy, though not with the same
effectiveness. He could sacrifice the weight at the end of his rope,
just as before he'd sacrificed himself. If he chose the moment when in
their spinning the heavy objects were moving fastest toward the stars,
that would be the moment when his own motion toward annihilation was
least.

He let go. The awkward clump of tethered space equipment went swiftly
toward nowhere. McCauley seemed to cease to drift away from where Sammy
Breen, floating steadily, made bubbling noises to himself as if he were
sobbing in shame that McCauley had given him life at the expense of his
own. McCauley was now a good six hundred feet off in emptiness from the
lacework of silvery bars.

"How am I doing, Randy?" asked McCauley curtly. "You want to catch
Sammy when he comes through the framework. Get to where you can help
him. But when you have time, make an estimate on me."

There was silence. The Platform hurtled on around Earth. The changing,
distorted patterns of land and sea seemed to writhe as they went past
in the intolerably brilliant sunshine. But over at the very edge of
the bright disk a little trace of blackness appeared. That would be
the night line on Earth. The Platform and its company moved separately
yet together toward that darkness. Presently it would cover half the
disk of Earth, and then it would sweep on until only a swiftly thinning
crescent of light remained, and then the Platform would plunge into
utter darkness, where most of the cosmos was only shining stars and a
pallid moon, the rest the blackness of the Pit. And of course, in this
darkness the building satellite's unprotected substance would--like
McCauley--drop to a temperature of two hundred and twenty-odd degrees
below zero.

"Throw your rope to Captain Hall!" McCauley snapped to Sammy Breen. "I
know you'll turn somersaults. But throw it!"

Silence again. McCauley made his own estimate. It was not good. He did
not drift swiftly away into the emptiness which would presently be
blackness and cold and death. But he had not lost all his velocity away
from the Platform.

He took the wrench with which he fastened together the frame members
of the unlikely object which he left with such deadly deliberation.
He drew up his feet below him. He placed the wrench under them. At a
carefully chosen instant he thrust it violently away.

He pushed the wrench toward nothingness. Its mass may have been ten
pounds on Earth. His own mass, with his space suit and air tanks
and the like, was probably thirty times as much. If he thrust the
wrench away at thirty feet per second--and he did--he would change
his own velocity by one foot per second. This might mean a slowing of
his motion away, or it might mean a terribly slow drift back to the
Platform and a chance for life.

He took his space knife. It might weigh a pound. He threw it.
Systematically and unhurriedly he denuded his belt of the tools hanging
to it. A mass of possibly sixty pounds, thrown violently away, changed
his velocity by as much as six or--considering that he had less mass
with each bit of mass he discarded--probably seven feet per second.

"I've got Sammy," said Randy's voice, hoarse and strained. "He's all
right.... You don't seem to be going away any more, Ed. You're no
farther than you were. Maybe I can knot ropes.... No. There aren't
enough."

"Right," said McCauley with an odd calm. "There wouldn't be time,
anyhow. We're heading for eclipse. I've got to get back on my own--and
fast. The storybooks say rockets are used by men in space to go bobbing
around in their space suits. We know better. But I'm going to use one
air tank."

He writhed in the harness outside his space suit. He managed to detach
one of his two air tanks. He aimed its pipe carefully.

Air poured out with a rush when he opened the stop-cock. There was
two thousand pounds pressure to begin with. The tank had been in
unshielded sunshine for more than an hour. The effective pressure of
the air had tripled, at least, because of its rise in temperature. It
made a rocket jet of gas. McCauley could feel its quick, sharp tug at
him.

It went empty.

He put it under his feet and gave it the most violent of thrusts toward
the Milky Way. Now he could see that he had given the discarded things
all the momentum that had carried him away from the Platform, plus all
he had taken from Sammy Breen. He was moving toward the Platform. It no
longer dwindled as time went by. It grew in size with an intolerable,
incredible slowness. But that slowness amounted to doom.

"You're headed back," said Randy's agonized voice in his helmet phones.
"But it's slow, Ed! It's desperately slow!"

The blackness, which was Earth's own shadow cast upon its night-side
surface, was now fully halfway from the rim of the world toward that
halfway point which was the middle of the space that Earth occupied
within the cosmos.

"There's about fifteen minutes left before totality," said McCauley
with deliberation. "I've one more thing I can throw away. But I need to
steer with it too, and I can't be accurate at this distance. I don't
dare to use it from so far away. I've no space rope left to throw for
you to catch. I have to throw that last thing away at the very last
instant."

He heard confused sounds. Sammy Breen, back at the Platform, made
incoherent noises. He probably gesticulated, because Randy understood.

"Yes," said Randy's voice harshly. "Make it quick. But take care! More
than your own life depends on your being careful now!"

Sammy Breen gulped. McCauley heard him. Then silence again.

It was necessary to wait. McCauley was a tiny, glistening object
in emptiness, a desperately long way from the equally glistening
Platform. He turned slowly, foolishly, as he floated. Away off
against a background of stars--but the sun moved momentarily nearer
its edge--there was a shape that now was not quite half of a circle
of brilliant light, and more than half of a circle of darkness
like that of the Abyss. It did not look like Earth. It had not the
least appearance of a world in which human beings lived and moved
and breathed and loved and died. It was a monstrosity whose details
changed their shape as half minutes and quarter minutes went by. And
continually and implacably the darkness spread over more of it.

Randy's voice came desperately.

"Hurry, Sammy! Give it to me and get back into the cabin. We won't have
time to wait our turns at the air lock.... Right! Now get back in the
cabin!"

"How am I doing now, Randy?" McCauley asked calmly. "How's my line of
motion?"

"I don't like it!" said Randy fiercely. "It's off to one side! Sammy
just brought me all the extra space ropes. He tied them together
inside. I'm checking them now. There are four of them."

McCauley said:

"I hate to seem overanxious, but how much will I miss the Platform by?"

"Too much," answered Randy bitterly. "What have you got left that you
can throw away to steer by?"

"Eighty pounds of mass," said McCauley with composure. "But I have to
wait until the last second."

Silence again. Darkness covered three-quarters of the Earth's strange
disk. It was not the darkness of a night on Earth, with trees and
plants and men as darker shapes against starlit or moonlit ground or
sea. It was the blackness of nothingness, of annihilation.

"You can't stay out much longer, Randy," McCauley said. "I'll have to
try it."

"There's the moon," said Randy hoarsely. "I can see by that, ... maybe."

Again silence. The shape which was Earth became the thinnest of
crescents. The sun blazed fiercely almost at its outer rim.

The sun turned orange, crimson, ruby-red. It ceased to be a circle. One
edge blacked out. It was half blacked out. It was gone.

McCauley wriggled in the harness outside his space suit. He spoke
deliberately.

"I'm going to take all the deep breaths I can, Randy. I'll even let a
little extra pressure into my suit. Then I'll take off my last air tank
and try to steady myself with its jet of air. Then I'll put it under
my feet and jump against it, toward you. Now listen! If anything goes
wrong, it won't be your fault! Understand? Don't take any crazy risks.
If I go on past the Platform, get into the cabin fast before the cold
comes! That is my order! I expect you to obey it!"

"Cripes, Ed!" Randy's voice broke.

McCauley bled air into his suit. He breathed deeply and fast,
saturating his lungs with oxygen. He removed the tank and then spent
precious seconds stripping away the harness that had held tools and
extra equipment to his suit.

He jetted away the air. In the utter silence that was the universe, the
whistle of escaping compression was conducted to his gloved hands and
so to the remaining air inside his space suit. He used the jet with
infinite care. The tank tugged briefly and his random body rotation
stopped. He saw the Platform, almost incredibly dim in the moonlight.

He jumped against the mass of the air tank and harness together. In
seconds he could see that he was moving closer toward the silvery,
spidery framework in the moonshine. He kept himself still. Nothing he
could do now would add anything to his chance for life, and exertion
would lessen the time left before he suffocated for lack of air.

He relaxed by an iron effort of will. He had gambled. He could win or
he could lose. But he must keep the calmness of a man who sees the
stakes down and waits for the outcome.

The Platform was no more than a hundred and fifty yards away. No more
than a hundred.

He would miss it. He would pass sixty feet or more beyond its outermost
edge. Randy would undoubtedly try to throw him the space ropes he'd
tied together. The odds were enormously against his being able to catch
them.

He said nothing. If Randy thought that he'd run out of air before he
reached the point nearest the Platform, he would reproach himself less;
he'd believe he couldn't have done anything, anyhow.

Fifty yards. Twenty. He saw glittering metal only sixty feet away. But
there was no conceivable action he could take to move himself that
sixty feet.

Then something dark came toward him. It grew larger. It was Randy,
plunging out from the girders with a hundred and twenty feet of space
rope trailing behind him, made fast to a firmly bolted beam.

He collided with McCauley. McCauley felt him gripping fiercely. He felt
Randy clinging to him savagely against the jerk of the rope which must
tighten presently.

The jerk came, violent and abrupt.

Randy gasped in relief. He took away one space-suited arm to haul
at the space rope that had checked McCauley's slow drift past to
nothingness.

"Very nice work, Randy," said McCauley composedly, "but you took an
awful chance."

They bumped against the substance of the Platform--one square metal
tube some three inches by five.

"Can you hold on?" demanded Randy, panting. "I'll give you one of my
air tanks!"

They were out at the farthermost limit of the framework of the Space
Platform. McCauley's faceplate began to frost now, with the loss of
heat to the darkness.

"Make it fast," said McCauley. "We want to get in out of the cold."

Fumblings. Clatterings. McCauley heard Randy's teeth chatter, which
might be cold or might be reaction from the terror he'd felt on
McCauley's account.

"Right!" McCauley said suddenly. He felt air blowing past his face.
Randy's extra tank was connected. "I'm all set now. Let's get headed
for the cabin."

"Hold it!" said Randy angrily. "You tie a space rope to yourself and
loop it around a beam! Do you want to take a chance on slipping away?
Maybe there is only one chance in ten thousand of getting lost, but
there's no need to take that!"

"Okay, boss," said McCauley. "I shoulda known better."

Hardly more than seconds later he was sliding toward the cabin, Randy
following close behind. He came to a joint where three of the beams
came together. He unlooped his space rope from the near side, looped it
around beyond the joint, crawled over, and slid again.

The cold came fast, but they would make it. Already his mind was at
work on a matter that bothered him. He was in charge of the building
of the Platform. That meant that he had to think about the feelings of
the men under him. Randy was all right. He'd done a good job, and he
knew it. But Sammy Breen was different. He was a very young officer,
and he felt right now that he'd blundered and imperiled a senior
officer--practically killed him, in fact--and he'd be in a state of
almost hysterical self-abasement. Not a good state for young officers
to be in.

When McCauley squirmed out of the air lock, young Sammy Breen looked at
him. He was deathly white and utterly ashamed.

"Hm," said McCauley ruefully. "Sammy, I think I'll have to report
myself for incompetence. When a second man's standing by while somebody
does a tricky job, he ought to be sure that his space rope can't slip.
I didn't. I doggone near got you killed, Sammy. I'm sorry."

Sammy Breen made an inarticulate sound. Then Randy came out of the air
lock.

"For the love of Heaven, Sammy!" he said, scolding. "It's your trick to
fix food! We've got less than an hour for eating before the sun comes
back. And you haven't even got the stuff heating up! What kind of a
cook are you, anyhow?"

Sammy swallowed. He swallowed again. Neither McCauley nor Randy
mentioned the late so nearly complete disaster. Randy was kidding him.
McCauley made a joke of it, too.

Sammy put the food on to thaw and heat. He struggled to become worthy
of the companionship of men like McCauley and Randy Hall. Presently he
swallowed and said accusingly:

"You characters were late for dinner. Don't blame me if it's cold!"

He looked anxiously at them. He hoped....

McCauley grinned at him. Randy laughed. They laughed together.
Lieutenant Sammy Breen felt wonderfully good. And he would be very
careful hereafter.