(It seemed there wasn't much left to do in the way of space
    pioneering. There was a Space Platform, and there were bases on the
    moon, and drone ships had been out to Mars and sunward past Venus.
    There were new and better fuels, and the problem involving the Van
    Allen belts of highly charged atomic particles seemed to have been
    solved. It looked as if the rest of the job of conquering space
    would be just plain, slogging hard work of a strictly routine
    nature. This process would be improved a little, and that would be
    developed a little further, and progress toward the stars would be
    made by inches. But things never work out simply. There is always
    something unexpected and usually disastrous turning up. Just when
    things looked brightest, somebody worked out the causes of solar
    flares and devised a way to predict them. It looked like a neat and
    unimportant triumph of pure theory. But when it was closely
    examined, it meant that the end of all space travel was
    approaching.)

They called Colonel Ed McCauley back from the moon when Doctor Bramwell
peevishly refused to go along with the Venus shoot unless the assigned
crew was fired and replaced by more respectful men. The top brass felt
that McCauley might be able to get along with Bramwell and get the job
done. It was a highly necessary job. There was a sun-flare maximum
coming up, but if the Bramwell-Faraday screen could be improved enough,
it might not matter. Men might continue to occupy the Space Platform,
and activities at the bases on the moon might continue. All the men now
in space might not have to return to Earth to stay until the flares
died down--if they ever did. In effect, if the Bramwell-Faraday screen
could be built up to adequate strength, man's conquest of space might
continue. If the screen couldn't be built up, space travel must stop.

And Doctor Bramwell was the key man in the project. He'd devised the
screen in the first place, and was more likely to be able to improve it
than anyone else. But he was not an amiable person. So, since he was a
civilian and couldn't be given orders, when he said peevishly that he
would not go along with the original crew, the men first assigned to
the Venus shoot were removed--swearing luridly--and Colonel Ed McCauley
came back from the moon to see what he could do.

He had one interview with Bramwell, and was very respectful. Part of
the respect was genuine, and part was diplomacy. Bramwell did have one
of the two or three best brains on Earth, but his personality gave
McCauley reason to be disturbed.

After the interview he consulted higher-ranking officers. He did not
think Bramwell was psychologically qualified to take part in the Venus
shoot. He thought the scientist would do better work if he stayed
home and directed somebody on the ship by tight-beam radio. McCauley
spoke forcefully. But Bramwell happened to have a near-monopoly of the
kind of brains that were required. And the psychological factor that
made McCauley doubtful made the doctor as temperamental as any prima
donna. The high brass knew all the reasons for McCauley's protest.
But if Bramwell felt himself pushed aside, he'd sulk. If he sulked,
he wouldn't do his best work. And his best work was an essential. So
McCauley was ordered to make do with Bramwell somehow.

McCauley shrugged dubiously. He asked for Major Randy Hall to be
assigned as his second-in-command. Randy gloated when his appointment
came through, but McCauley shook his head gloomily.

"There's no reason to feel good about it," he told Randy dourly, in
the almost completed Venus ship. "I'll be glad if you go along, but
that's not the idea. You're appointed to be the man who'll be fired if
Bramwell demands it."

Randy blinked. The cramped, inconvenient, gadget-filled interior of the
Venus ship looked glamorous, when you thought of where it was going
and what had to be done in it.

"The fact is," said McCauley, "--and the big brass knows it--the fact
is that Bramwell's scared. He's terrified at the idea of going out into
space. But he's ashamed to admit it. He'd rather die than let anyone
know he's in a panic. He's probably trying to keep from admitting it
even to himself. So he's making trouble to delay the moment of truth.
He's trying to keep from facing the fact that he either has to go or
else admit he won't."

"He's afraid of going?" asked Randy incredulously.

"Just as some people are afraid of heights, or spiders, or income-tax
forms," said McCauley distastefully. "There's nothing disgraceful about
being scared. If he'd only admit it, he could fight it or accept it.
In either case he'd be all right. But he insists to himself that he's
not only a brainy man but a normally courageous one. So he insists
he'll go, and he won't let anybody go in his place, but he can't make
himself believe he'll go. So he sets up all sorts of obstacles--crazy
ones--ridiculous ones. He doesn't realize it, but he may subconsciously
be trying to postpone the shoot until it's too late to make it. If that
happens he won't have to face the fact that he's scared."

Randy grimaced.

"And you expect me...."

"To keep him busy," said McCauley. "Try to fix things so that it'll be
take-off time before he realizes it. Keep him away from me so he can't
pick a quarrel and insist that I be fired. Make yourself the one he'll
insist he can't stand, when what he can't stand is the trip."

Randy grimaced again.

"You're a rat," he said resignedly. "But suppose I charm him so he
doesn't insist that I be thrown out?"

"Fine!" said McCauley. "There'll be a crew of only two, with him as the
third. I'd rather have you than anybody else. But Bramwell's devising
excuses for refusing to go. You could be one excuse."

"I'll polish some apples," said Randy, "and fearlessly mixing
metaphors, I'll beard him in his den. Maybe I can get so popular he
won't want anybody fired."

"Good luck to you," said McCauley skeptically. "You'll need it!"

He plunged into the remaining preparations for the shoot, and Randy
went to take over the job of keeping Bramwell from meeting the various
people who passionately wanted to have nothing to do with him.

The basic problem the Venus shoot was to attack was at once simple
but apparently hopeless. From time to time the sun displays "flares";
these are violent upsurgings of its photosphere, not in the nature of
sunspots but somehow associated with them. A flare may begin without
obvious warning and in fifteen minutes become monstrously violent,
throwing off highly ionized fragments of molecules at the highest
speeds material particles can attain. Some of these particles, in time,
reach Earth; magnetic storms and auroral displays are the consequences
of their arrival. They are harmless to people who live at the bottom of
the planet's ocean of air.

But they are not harmless to the crew of a ship in space, or to the
staff of that combined way station and observatory which is the Space
Platform, or to the occupants of the bases on the moon. The Space
Platform itself was set in orbit only three thousand miles out from
Earth because of the Van Allen belts of just such particles that have
been swung into paths around the earth and form invisible rings more or
less resembling the visible rings of Saturn. At three thousand miles
out these particles are not deadly. Farther out they are.

It was not until the Bramwell-Faraday screen was devised that it became
possible for a man to land upon the moon. With the screen, a man could
survive passing through the Van Allen belts in screened ships and set
up moon bases. But the margin of safety was not great. It was enough,
but barely so.

The Venus shoot was planned because this state of affairs would not
last. Astrophysicists had developed a system for predicting solar
flares. Then they'd found evidence and, later, proof that the flare
frequency was due for an enormous and probably permanent rise. Dense
clouds of flare particles would be released. The Van Allen bands
would be intensified. Within a year, any man who went beyond Earth's
protecting atmosphere could expect to get a fatal dose of radiation
burns within an hour's exposure, a flare particle being "radiation" in
the same sense as the particles thrown off by radioactive materials.
The Bramwell-Faraday screen had to be improved, or else. And the only
way to know that it was improved was to try it against stronger and
stronger streams of the deadly particles until it failed--or worked.
Which meant that somebody had to go out to where flare particles were
abundant.

So McCauley labored on the ship that was already nearly set to dive
sunward. It would be equipped with the screen that had made Earth-moon
travel possible. It would have on board Bramwell, who'd designed the
screen to begin with. It would plunge into flare-particle radiation of
such intensity that the ship's crew _might_ survive--with the present
screen on full--but this was by no means certain. The ship would dive
sunward to Venus, swing around that planet, and drift back out to the
orbit of Earth. On the way, Bramwell would try to adapt his screen
to protect the ship and himself in it. It was a highly melodramatic
proceeding, and Bramwell looked very heroic.

But he was a most unpleasant man. Having met him, McCauley estimated
his personal attractiveness as much less than one-tenth the personal
charm of an irritated skunk.