VI
                                BETRAYED

There were twelve people sitting on the benches when we entered, so that
with Orrin Colby, ourselves, and the man at the door we were sixteen in
all. Colby is the head of our church, his great-grandfather having been
a Methodist minister. Father and Mother were there, sitting next to Jim
and Mollie, and there were Samuels the Jew, Betty Worth, who was Dennis
Corrigan’s woman, and all the other familiar faces.

They had been waiting for us, and as soon as we were seated the services
commenced with a prayer, everyone standing with bowed head. Orrin Colby
always delivered this same short prayer at the opening of services each
first Sunday of every month. It ran something like this:

God of our fathers, through generations of persecution and cruelty in a
world of hate that has turned against You, we stand at Your right hand,
loyal to You and to our Flag. To us Your name stands for justice,
humanity, love, happiness and right and The Flag is Your emblem. Once
each month we risk our lives that Your name may not perish from the
Earth. Amen!

From behind the altar he took a shepherd’s crook to which was attached a
flag like that in my father’s possession, and held it aloft, whereat we
all knelt in silence for a few seconds, then he replaced it and we
arose. Then we sang a song—it was an old, old song that started like
this: “Onward, Christian soldier.” It was my favorite song. Mollie
Sheehan played a violin while we sang.

Following the song Orrin Colby talked to us—he always talked about the
practical things that affected our lives and our future. It was a homely
talk; but it was full of hope for better times. I think that at these
meetings, once each month, we heard the only suggestions of hope that
ever came into our lives. There was something about Orrin Colby that
inspired confidence and hope. These days were the bright spots in our
drab existence that helped to make life bearable.

After that we sang again and then Samuels, the Jew, prayed, and the
regular service was over, after which we had short talks by various
members of our church. These talks were mostly on the subject which
dominated the minds of all—a revolution; but we never got any further
than talking. How could we? We were probably the most thoroughly
subjugated people the world ever had known—we feared our masters and we
feared our neighbors. We did not know whom we might trust, outside that
little coterie of ours, and so we dared not seek recruits for our cause
although we knew that there must be thousands who would sympathize with
us. Spies and informers were everywhere—they, The Kash Guard and The
Butcher, were the agencies by which they controlled us; but of all, we
feared most the spies and informers. For a woman, for a neighbor’s
house, and in one instance of which I know, for a setting of eggs, men
have been known to inform on their friends—sending them to the mines or
The Butcher.

Following the talks we just visited together and gossiped for an hour or
two, enjoying the rare treat of being able to speak our minds freely and
fearlessly. I had to retell several times my experiences before Or-tis’
new court-martial, and I know that it was with difficulty that they
believed that I had said the things I had to our masters and come away
free and alive. They simply could not understand it.

All were warned of Peter Johansen and the names of others under
suspicion of being informers were passed around that we might all be on
our guard against them. We did not sing again, for even on these days
that our hearts were lightest they were too heavy for song. About two
o’clock the pass signal for the next meeting was given out and then we
started away singly or in pairs. I volunteered to go last, with Juana,
and see that the door was locked, and an hour later, after the rest had
gone, we started out about five minutes behind Samuels, the Jew.

Juana and I had emerged from the wood, when we noticed a man walking
cautiously in the shade of the trees ahead of us. He seemed to be
following someone and immediately there sprang to my thoughts the
ever-near suspicion—spy.

The moment that he turned a bend in the pathway and was out of our sight
Juana and I ran forward as rapidly as we could, that we might get a
closer view of him, nor were we disappointed. We saw and recognized him,
and we also saw whom he shadowed. It was Peter Johansen, carrying one
arm in a sling, sneaking along behind Samuels.

Casting about in my mind for some plan to throw Peter off the track I
finally hit upon a scheme which I immediately put into execution. I knew
the way that the old man followed to and from church, and that presently
he would make a wide detour that would bring him back to the river about
a quarter of a mile below. Juana and I could walk straight to the spot
and arrive long before Samuels did. And this we proceeded to do.

About half an hour after we reached the point at which we knew he would
strike the river we heard him coming and withdrew into some bushes. On
he came, all oblivious of the creature on his trail, and a moment later
we saw Peter come into view and halt at the edge of the trees. Then
Juana and I stepped out and hailed Samuels.

“Did you see nothing of them?” I asked in a tone of voice loud enough to
be distinctly heard by Peter, and then before Samuels could reply I
added: “We have searched far up the river and never a sign of a goat
about—I do not believe that they came this way after all; but if they
did the hellhounds will get them after dark. Come, now, we might as well
start for home and give the search up as a bad job.”

I had talked so much and so rapidly that Samuels had guessed that I must
have some reason for it and so he held his peace, other than to say that
he had seen nothing of any goats. Not once had Juana or I let our
glances betray that we knew of Peter’s presence, though I could not help
but see him dodge behind a tree the moment that he saw us.

The three of us then continued on toward home in the shortest direction,
and on the way I whispered to Samuels what we had seen. The old man
chuckled, for he thought as I did that my ruse must have effectually
baffled Johansen—unless he had followed Moses farther than we guessed.

Very cautiously during the ensuing week the word was passed around by
means with which we were familiar that Johansen had followed Samuels
from church; but as the authorities paid no more attention to Moses than
before, we finally concluded that we had thrown Peter off the trail.

The Sunday following church we were all seated in Jim’s yard under one
of his trees that had already put forth its young leaves and afforded
shade from the sun. We had been talking of homely things—the coming
crops, the newborn kids, Mollie’s little pigs. The world seemed
unusually kindly. The authorities had not persecuted us of late—rather
they had left us alone—a respite of two weeks seemed like heaven to us.
We were quite sure by this time that Peter Johansen had discovered
nothing, and our hearts were freer than for a long time past.

We were sitting thus in quiet and contentment enjoying a brief rest from
our lives of drudgery, when we heard the pounding of horses’ hoofs upon
the hard earth of the path that leads down the river in the direction of
the market place. Suddenly the entire atmosphere changed—relaxed nerves
became suddenly taut; peaceful eyes resumed their hunted expression.
Why? The Kash Guard rides.

And so they came—fifty of them, and at their head rode Brother General
Or-tis. At the gateway of Jim’s house they drew rein and Or-tis
dismounted and entered the yard. He looked at us as a man might look at
carrion; and he gave us no greeting, which suited us perfectly. He
walked straight to Juana, who was seated on a little bench beside which
I stood leaning against the bole of the tree. None of us moved. He
halted before the girl.

“I have come to tell you,” he said to her, “that I have done you the
honor to choose you as my woman, to bear my children and keep my house
in order.”

He stood then looking at her and I could feel the hair upon my head
rise, and the corners of my upper lip twitched—I know not why. I only
know that I wanted to fly at his throat and kill him, to tear his flesh
with my teeth—to see him die! And then he looked at me and stepped
back, after which he beckoned to some of his men to enter. When they had
come, he again addressed Juana, who had risen and stood swaying to and
fro, as might one who has been dealt a heavy blow upon the head and
half-stunned.

“You may come with me now,” he said to her, and then I stepped between
them and faced him, and again he stepped back a pace.

“She will not come with you now, or ever,” I said, and my voice was very
low—not above a whisper. “She is my woman—I have taken her!”

It was a lie—the last part; but what is a lie to a man who would commit
murder in the same cause. He was among his men now—they were close
around him and I suppose they gave him courage, for he addressed me
threateningly.

“I do not care whose she is,” he cried, “I want her and I shall have
her. I speak for her now, and I speak for her when she is a widow. After
you are dead I have first choice of her and traitors do not live long.”

“I am not dead yet,” I reminded him. He turned to Juana.

“You shall have thirty days as the law requires; but you can save your
friends trouble if you come now—they will not be molested then and I
will see that their taxes are lowered.”

Juana gave a little gasp and looked around at us and then she
straightened her shoulders and came close to me.

“No!” she said to Or-tis. “I will never go. This is my man—he has taken
me. Ask him if he will give me up to you. You will never have
me—alive.”

“Don’t be too sure of that,” he growled. “I believe that you are both
lying to me, for I have had you watched and I know that you do not live
under the same roof. And you!” he glared at me. “Tread carefully, for
the eyes of the law find traitors where others do not see them.” Then he
turned and strode from the yard. A minute later they were gone in a
cloud of dust.

Now our happiness and peace had fled—it was always thus—and there was
no hope. I dared not look at Juana after what I had said; but then, had
she not said the same thing? We all talked lamely for a few minutes and
then Father and Mother rose to go, and a moment later Jim and Mollie
went indoors. I turned to Juana. She stood with her eyes upon the ground
and a pretty flush upon her cheek. Something surged up in me—a mighty
force, that I had never known, possessed me, and before I realized what
it impelled me to do I had seized Juana in my arms and was covering her
face and lips with kisses.

She fought to free herself; but I would not let her go.

“You are mine!” I cried. “You are my woman. I have said it—you have
said. You are my woman. God, how I love you!”

She lay quiet then, and let me kiss her, and presently her arms stole
about my neck and her lips sought mine in an interval that I had drawn
them away, and they moved upon my lips in a gentle caress, that was yet
palpitant with passion. This was a new Juana—a new and very wonderful
Juana.

“You really love me?” she asked at last—“I heard you say it!”

“I have loved you from the moment I saw you looking up at me from
beneath the hellhound,” I replied.

“You have kept it very much of a secret to yourself then,” she teased
me. “If you loved me so, why did you not tell me? Were you going to keep
it from me all my life, or—were you afraid? Brother Or-tis was not
afraid to say that he wanted me—is my man, my Julian, less brave than
he?”

I knew that she was only teasing me, and so I stopped her mouth with
kisses and then: “Had you been a hellhound, or Soor, or even Or-tis,” I
said, “I could have told you what I thought of you; but being Juana and
a little girl the words would not come. I am a great coward.”

We talked until it was time to go home to supper and I took her hand to
lead her to my house. “But first,” I said, “you must tell Mollie and Jim
what has happened, and that you will not be back. For a while we can
live under my father’s roof; but as soon as may be I will get permission
from the teivos to take the adjoining land and work it and then I shall
build a house.”

She drew back and flushed. “I cannot go with you yet,” she said.

“What do you mean?” I asked. “You are mine!”

“We have not been married,” she whispered.

“But no one is married,” I reminded her. “Marriage is against the law.”

“My mother was married,” she told me. “You and I can be married. We have
a church and a preacher. Why cannot he marry us? He is not ordained
because there is none to ordain him; but being the head of the only
church that he knows of or that we know of, it is evident that he can be
ordained only by God and who knows but that he already has been
ordained!”

I tried to argue her out of it, as now that heaven was so near I had no
mind to wait three weeks to attain it; but she would not argue—she just
shook her head and at last I saw that she was right and gave in—as I
would have had to do in any event.

I went to Pthav, who was one of our representatives in the teivos, and
asked him to procure for me permission to work the vacant land adjoining
my father’s. The land all belonged to the community; but each man was
allowed what he could work as long as there was plenty, and there was
more than plenty for us all.

Pthav was very ugly—he seemed to have forgotten that I had saved his
child’s life—and said that he did not know what he could do for
me—that I had acted very badly to General Or-tis and was in disfavor,
beside being under suspicion in another matter.

“What has General Or-tis to do with the distribution of land by the
teivos?” I asked. “Because he wants my woman will the teivos deny me my
rights?”

Pthav’s woman came in while I was talking and recognized me; but she
said nothing to me other than to mention that the child had asked for
me. Pthav scowled at this and ordered her from the room just as a man
might order a beast around. It was nothing to me, though, as the woman
was a renegade anyway.

Finally I demanded of Pthav that he obtain the concession for me unless
he could give me some valid reason for refusing.

“I will ask it,” he said, finally; “but you will not get it—be sure of
that.”

As I was leaving the house Pthav’s woman stopped me. “I will do what I
can for you,” she whispered. She must have seen me draw away
instinctively as from an unclean thing, for she flushed and then said:
“Please don’t! I have suffered enough. I have paid the price of my
treachery; but know, Yank,” and she put her lips close to my ear, “that
at heart I am more Yank than I was when I did this thing. And,” she
continued, “I have never spoken a word that could harm one of you. Tell
them that—please tell them! I do not want them to hate me so, and God
of our Fathers, how I have suffered—the degradation, the
humiliation—it has been worse than what you are made to suffer. The
creatures are lower than the beasts of the forest. When his friends come
he serves them food and drink and—me! Ugh! I could kill him, if I were
not such a coward. I have seen and I know how they can make one suffer
before death.”

I could not but feel sorry for her, and I told her so. The poor creature
appeared very grateful and assured me that she would aid me.

“I know a few things about Pthav that he would not want Or-tis to know,”
she said, “and even though he beats me for it I will make him get the
land for you.”

Again I thanked her and departed, realizing that there were others worse
off than we—that the closer one came to the Kalkars the more hideous
life became.

At last the day came and we set out for the church. As before I took
Juana, though she tried to order it differently; but I would not trust
her to the protection of another. We arrived without mishap—sixteen of
us—and after the religious services were over Juana and I stood before
the altar and were married—much after the fashion of the ancients, I
imagine.

Juana was the only one of us who was at all sure about the ceremony and
it had been she who trained Orrin Colby—making him memorize so much
that he said his head ached for a week. All I can recall of it is that
he asked me if I would take her to be my lawfully wedded wife—I lost my
voice and only squeaked a weak “yes”—and that he pronounced us man and
wife, and then something about not letting anyone put asunder what God
had joined together. I felt very much married and very happy, and then
just as it was all nicely over and everybody was shaking hands with us
there came a loud knocking at the door and the command: “Open, in the
name of the law!”

We looked at one another and gasped. Orrin Colby put a finger to his
lips for silence and led the way toward the back of the church where a
rough niche was built in, containing a few shelves upon which stood
several rude candle sticks. We knew our parts and followed him in
silence, except one who went quickly about putting out the lights. All
the time the pounding on the door became more insistent, and then we
could hear the strokes of what must have been an ax beating at the
panels. Finally, a shot was fired through the heavy wood and we knew
that it was the Kash Guard.

Taking hold of the lower shelf Orrin pulled upward with all his strength
with the result that all the shelving and woodwork to which it was
attached slid upward revealing an opening beyond. Through this we filed,
one by one, down a flight of stone steps into a dark tunnel. When the
last man had passed I lowered the shelving to its former place, being
careful to see that it fitted tightly.

Then I turned and followed the others, Juana’s hand in mine. We groped
our way for some little distance in the stygian darkness of the tunnel
until Orrin halted and whispered to me to come to him. I went and stood
at his side while he told me what I was to do. He had called upon me
because I was the tallest and the strongest of the men. Above us was a
wooden trap. I was to lift this and push it aside.

It had not been moved for generations and was very heavy with earth and
growing things above; but I put my shoulders to it and it had to
give—either it or the ground beneath my feet and that could not give.
At last I had it off and in a few minutes I had helped them all out into
the midst of a dense wood. Again we knew our parts, for many times had
we been coached for just such an emergency, and one by one the men
scattered in different directions, each taking his woman with him.

Suiting our movements to a prearranged plan, we reached our homes from
different directions and at different times, some arriving after
sundown, to the end that were we watched, none might be sure that we had
been upon the same errand or to the same place.