IX
                                REUNION

Through the conversation that I overheard between Raban and his minions
I learned that Bethelda was imprisoned in the westerly ruin, but as
Raban did not go thither during the afternoon I waited in the hope that
fortune would favor me with a better opportunity after dark to attempt
her liberation with less likelihood of interruption or discovery than
would have been possible during the day, when men and women were
constantly passing in and out of the easterly tent. There was the
chance, too, that Okonnor might return with help and I did not want to
do anything while that hope remained that might jeopardize Bethelda’s
chances for escape.

Night fell and yet there was no sign of Okonnor. Sounds of coarse
laughter came from the main ruin and I could imagine that Raban and his
followers were at meat, washing down their food with the fiery liquor of
the Kalkars. There was no one in sight and so I determined to come out
of my concealment and investigate the structure in which I believed
Bethelda imprisoned. If I could release her, well and good; if not I
could but wait for Okonnor.

As I was about to descend from the tree there came down with the wind
from out of the canyon to the south a familiar sound—the nicker of a
red stallion. It was music to my ears. I must answer it even though I
chanced arousing the suspicion of the Kalkars. Just once my answering
whistle rose sharp and clear above the noises of the night. I do not
think the Kalkars heard it—they were making too much noise of their own
within doors—but the eager whinny that came thinly down the night wind
told me that two fine, slim ears had caught the familiar summons.

Instead of going at once to the westerly ruin I made my way down the
hill to meet Red Lightning, for I knew that he might mean, in the end,
success or failure for me—freedom or death for Bethelda. Already, when
I reached the foot of the declivity, I faintly heard the pounding of his
hoofs and, steadily increasing in volume the loved sound rolled swiftly
out of the darkness toward me. The hoof beats of running horses, the
rolling of the war drums! What sweeter music in all the world?

He saw me, of course, before I saw him, but he stopped in a cloud of
dust a few yards from me and sniffed the air. I whispered his name and
called him to me. Mincingly he came, stopping often, stretching his long
neck forward, poised always, ready for instant flight. A horse depends
much upon his eyes and ears and nostrils, but he is never so fully
satisfied as when his soft, inquisitive muzzle has nosed an object of
suspicion. He snorted now, and then he touched my cheek with his velvet
lip and gave a great sigh and rubbed his head against me, satisfied. I
hid him beneath the trees at the foot of the hill and bade him wait
there in silence.

From the saddle I took the bow and some arrows and following the route
that Tav had taken to the top of the hill I avoided the hedge of roses
and came presently before the south archway of the ruin. Beyond was a
small central court with windows and doors opening upon it. Light from
flares burning in some of the rooms partially illuminated the court, but
most of it was in shadow. I passed beneath the arch and to the far end
of the enclosure, where, at my right, I saw a window and a door opening
into two rooms in which a number of Kalkars were eating and drinking at
two long tables. I could not see them all. If Raban was there he was not
within range of my vision.

It is always well to reconnoiter thoroughly before carrying out any plan
of action and with this idea in mind I left the court by the way I had
entered and made my way to the east end of the structure, intending to
pass entirely around it and along the north side of the westerly ruin,
where I hoped to find Bethelda and devise means for her rescue.

At the southeast corner of the ruin are three gigantic cypress trees,
growing so closely together as to almost resemble a single huge tree,
and as I paused an instant behind them to see what lay before me, I saw
a single Kalkar warrior come from the building and walk out into the
rank grass that grew knee high on a level space before the structure.

I fitted an arrow to my bow. The fellow had that which I craved—a
sword. Could I drop him noiselessly? If he would turn I was sure of it,
and turn he did as though impelled to it by my insistent wish. His back
was toward me. I drew the shaft far back. The cord twanged as I released
it, but there was no other sound, except the muffled thud as the arrow
entered its victim’s spine at the base of the brain. Mute, he died. No
other was around. I ran forward and removed his sword belt, to which
were attached both sword and knife.

As I arose and buckled the weapons about me, I glanced into the lighted
room from which he had just come. It was the same that I had seen from
the court upon the other side and directly adjoining it was the other
room that I had seen. Now I could see all of them that I had not seen
before. Raban was not there. Where was he? A cold terror ran suddenly
through me. Could it be that in the brief interval that had elapsed
while I went down to meet Red Lightning he had left the feast and gone
to the westerly ruin? I ran swiftly across the front of the house and
along the north side toward the other structure.

I stopped before it and listened. I heard the sound of voices! From
whence came they? This was a peculiar structure, built upon a downward
sloping hill, with one floor on a level with the hilltop, another above
that level and a third below and behind the others. Where the various
entrances were and how to find the right one I did not know. From my
hiding place in the tree I had seen that the front chamber at the hill
top level was a single apartment with a cavernous entrance that
stretched the full width of the ruin, while upon the south side and to
the rear of this apartment were two doors, but where they led I could
not guess. It seemed best, however, to try these first and so I ran
immediately to them and here the sounds of voices came more distinctly
to me and now I recognized the roaring, bull-tones of Raban.

I tried the nearer door. It swung open and before me a flight of stairs
descended and at the same time the voices came more loudly to my ears—I
had opened the right door. A dim light flickered below as though coming
from a chamber near the foot of the stairs. These were but instantaneous
impressions to which I gave no conscious heed at the time, for almost as
they flashed upon me I was at the foot of the stairs, looking into a
large, high-ceiled chamber in which burned a single flare that but
diffused the gloom sufficiently for me to see the figure of Raban
towering above that of Bethelda, whom he was dragging toward the doorway
by her hair.

“An Or-tis!” he was bellowing. “An Or-tis! Who would have thought that
Raban would ever take the daughter of a Jemadar to be his woman? Ah, you
do not like the idea, eh? You might do worse, if you had a choice, but
you have none, for who is there to say ‘no’ to Raban the Giant?”

“The Red Hawk!” I said, stepping into the chamber.

The fellow wheeled, and in the flickering light of the dim flare I saw
his red face go purple and from purple to white, or rather a blotchy
semblance of dirty yellow. Blood of my fathers! How he towered above me,
a perfect mountain of flesh! I am six feet in height and Raban must have
been half again as tall, a good nine feet; but I swear he appeared all
of twenty, and broad!

For a moment he stood in silence glaring at me as though overcome by
surprise and then he thrust Bethelda aside and drawing his sword
advanced upon me, bellowing and roaring as was his wont for the purpose,
I presume, of terrifying me, and also, I could not help but think, to
attract the attention and the aid of his fellows.

I came to meet him then and he appeared a mountain, so high he loomed;
but with all his size I did not feel the concern that I have when
meeting men of my own stature whose honor and courage merited my
respect, and it is well that I had this attitude in mind to fortify me
in the impending duel, for, by The Flag! I needed whatever of
encouragement I might find in it. The fellow’s height and weight were
sufficient to overcome a mighty warrior had Raban been entirely wanting
in skill, which he by no means was. He wielded his great sword with a
master hand and because of the very cowardice which I attributed to him
he fought with a frenzy wrought by fear, as a cornered beast fights.

I needed all my skill and I doubt that that alone would have availed me
had it not been upborne and multiplied by love and the necessity for
protecting the object of my love. Ever was the presence of Bethelda, the
Or-tis, a spur and an inspiration. What blows I struck I struck for her,
what I parried, it was as though I parried from her soft skin.

As we closed he swung mightily at me a cut that would have severed me in
twain, but I parried and stooped beneath it at once, and found his great
legs unguarded before me and ran my sword through a thigh. With a howl
of pain, Raban leaped back, but I followed him with a jab of my point
that caught him just beneath the bottom of his iron vest and punctured
his belly. At that he gave forth a horrible shriek, and though sorely
wounded began to wield his blade with a skill I had not dreamed lay in
him. It was with the utmost difficulty that I turned his heavy sword,
and I saved myself as many times by the quickness of my feet as by the
facility of my blade.

And much do I owe, too, to the cleverness of Bethelda, who, shortly
after we crossed swords, had run to the great fireplace and seized the
flare from where it had reposed upon the stone shelf above, and ever
after had kept just behind my shoulder with it, so that whatever
advantage of light there might be lay with me. Her position was a
dangerous one and I begged her to put herself at a safe distance, but
she would not, and no more would she take advantage of this opportunity
to escape.

Momentarily I had expected to see Raban’s men rushing into the chamber,
for I could not understand that his yells had not reached every ear
within a mile or more, and so I fought the more desperately to be rid of
him and on our way before they came. Raban, now panting for breath, had
none left with which to yell and I could see that from exertion, terror,
and loss of blood he was weakening.

It was now that I heard the loud voices of men without and the tramp of
running feet. They were coming! I redoubled my efforts and Raban his—I
to kill, he to escape death until succor came. From a score of wounds
was he bleeding and I was sure that that in his abdomen alone must prove
fatal; but still he clung to life tenaciously, and fought with a froth
of blood upon his lips from a punctured throat.

He stumbled and went to one knee and as he staggered to rise I thought
that I had him, when we heard the hurrying feet of men descending the
stairs. Instantly Bethelda hurled the flare to the floor, leaving us in
utter darkness.

“Come!” she whispered, laying a hand upon my arm. “There will be too
many now—we must escape as they enter or we are both indeed lost.”

The warriors were cursing at the doorway now and calling for lights.

“Who hides within?” shouted one. “Stand forth, a prisoner! We are a
hundred blades.”

Bethelda and I edged nearer the doorway, hoping to pass out among them
before a light was made. From the center of the room came a deep groan
from where I had left Raban, followed by a scuffling noise upon the
floor and a strange gurgling. I came to the doorway, leading Bethelda by
the hand. I found it choked with men.

“Aside!” I said. “I will fetch a light.”

A sword point was shoved against my belly. “Back!” warned a voice behind
the point. “We will have a look at you before you pass—another is
bringing a light.”

I stepped back and crossed my sword with his. Perhaps I could hew my way
to freedom with Bethelda in the confusion of the darkness. It seemed our
only hope, for to be caught by Raban’s minions now, after the hurts I
had inflicted upon him, would mean sure death for me and worse for
Bethelda.

By the feel of our steel we fenced in the dark, but I could not reach
him, nor he me, though I felt that he was a master swordsman. I thought
that I was gaining an advantage when I saw the flicker of a light coming
from the doorway at the head of the stairs. Someone was coming with a
flare. I redoubled my efforts, but to no avail.

And then the light came and as it fell upon the warriors in the doorway
I stepped back, astounded, and dropped my point. The light that revealed
them illumined my own face, and at sight of it my antagonist voiced a
cry of joy.

“Red Hawk!” he cried and seized me by the shoulder. It was The Vulture,
my brother, and with him were The Rattlesnake and a hundred warriors of
our own beloved clans. Other lights were brought and I saw Okonnor and a
host of strange warriors in Kalkar trappings pushing down the stairway
with my own, nor did they raise sword against one another.

Okonnor pointed toward the center of the chamber, and we looked and
there lay Raban, the giant, dead. “The Red Hawk, Julian 20th,” he said,
turning to those crowding into the chamber behind him, “Great Chief of
the Tribe of Julians—our chief!”

“And Jemadar of all America!” cried another voice and the warriors,
crowding into the room, raised their swords and their hoarse voices in
acclamation. And he who had named me thus pushed past them and faced me
and I saw that he was no other than the true Or-tis with whom I had been
imprisoned in The Capital and with whom I had escaped. He saw Bethelda
and rushed forward and took her in his arms, and for a moment I was
jealous, forgetting that he was her brother.

“And how has all this happened,” I asked, “that Or-tis and Julian come
here together in peace?”

“Listen,” said my brother, “before you pass judgment upon us. Long has
run the feud between Julian and Or-tis for the crime of a man dead now
hundreds of years. Few enough are the Americans of pure blood that they
should be separated by hate when they would come together in friendship.
Came the Or-tis to us after escaping the Kalkars and told of your escape
and of the wish of his father that peace be made between us, and he
offered to lead us against the Kalkars by ways that we did not know and
The Wolf took council with me and there was also The Rock, The
Rattlesnake and The Coyote, with every other chief who was at the front,
and in your absence I dissolved the feud that has lain between us and
the chiefs applauded my decision. Then, guided by the Or-tis, we entered
The Capital and drove the Kalkars before us. Great are their numbers,
but they have not The Flag with them and they must fall.

“Then,” he continued, “came word, brought by the little Nipons of the
hills, that you were in the mountains near the tent of Raban the Giant
and we came to find you, and on the way we met Okonnor with many
warriors and glad were they of the peace that had been made, and we
joined with them who were also riding against Raban to rescue the sister
of the Or-tis. And we are here awaiting the word of The Great Chief. If
it is for peace between the Julian and the Or-tis, we are glad; if it is
for war our swords are ready.”

“It is for peace, ever,” I replied and the Or-tis came and knelt at my
feet and took my hand in his.

“Before my people,” he said, very simply, “I swear allegiance to Julian
20th, Jemadar of America.”