IV
                              THE CAPITAL

When I regained consciousness it was night again. I was lying upon the
ground, out beneath the stars. For a moment I experienced a sense of
utter comfort, but as my tired nerves awoke they spoke to me of pain and
stiffness from many wounds, and my head throbbed with pain. I tried to
raise a hand to it, and it was then that I discovered that my wrists
were bound. I could feel the matted stiffness of my scalp, and I knew
that it was caked with dried blood, doubtless from the blow that had
stunned me.

In attempting to move, that I might ease my cramped muscles, I found
that my ankles were fastened together as well as my wrists, but I
managed to roll over, and raising my head a little from the ground I
looked about and saw that I was surrounded by sleeping Kalkars and that
we lay in a barren hollow ringed by hills. There were no fires, and from
this fact and the barrenness and seclusion of the camp I guessed that we
were snatching a brief rest in hiding from a pursuing foe.

I tried to sleep, but could do so only fitfully, and presently I heard
men moving about and soon they approached and awakened the warriors
sleeping near me. The thongs were removed from my ankles shortly
thereafter, and Red Lightning was brought and I was helped into the
saddle. Immediately after, we resumed the march. A glance at the stars
showed me that we were moving west. Our way led through hills and was
often rough, evidencing that we were following no beaten trail, but
rather that the Kalkars were attempting to escape by a devious route.

I could only guess at the numbers of them, but it was evident that there
was not the great horde that had set forth from the battlefield below
the pass of the ancients. Whether they had separated into smaller bands,
or the balance had been slain I could not even conjecture; but that
their losses must have been tremendous I was sure. We travelled all that
day, stopping only occasionally when there was water for the horses and
the men. I was given neither food nor water, nor did I ask for either. I
would die rather than ask a favor of an Or-tis. In fact, I did not speak
all that day, nor did any of the Kalkars address me.

I had seen more Kalkars in the past two days than in all my life before
and was now pretty familiar with the appearance of them. They range in
height from six to eight feet, the majority of them being midway between
these extremes. There is a great variety of physiognomy among them, for
they are a half-caste race, being the result of hundreds of years of
interbreeding between the original Moon Men and the women of the Earth
whom they seized for slaves when they overran and conquered the world.
Among them there is occasionally an individual who might pass anywhere
for a Yank, in so far as external appearances are concerned; but the
low, coarse, brutal features of the Kalkar preponderate.

They wear a white blouse and breeches of cotton woven by their slaves
and long, woolen cloaks fabricated by the same busy hands. Their women
help in this work as well as in the work of the fields, for the Kalkar
women are no better than slaves, with the possible exception of those
who belong to the families of the Jemadar and his nobles. Their cloaks
are of red, with collars of various colors, or with borders or other
designs to denote rank. Their weapons are similar to ours, but heavier.
They are but indifferent horsemen. That, I think, is because they ride
only from necessity and not, as we, from love of it.

That night, after dark, we came to a big Kalkar camp. It was one of the
camps of the ancients, the first that I ever had seen. It must have
covered a great area, and some of the huge stone tents were still
standing. It was in these that the Kalkars lived or in dirt huts leaning
against them. In some places I saw where the Kalkars had built smaller
tents from the building materials salvaged from the ruins of the ancient
camp, but as a rule they were satisfied with hovels of dirt, or the
half-fallen and never-repaired structures of the ancients.

This camp lies about forty-five or fifty miles west of the battlefield,
among beautiful hills and rich groves, upon the banks of what must once
have been a mighty river, so deeply has it scoured its pathway into the
earth in ages gone.[2]

-----

[2] The camp described probably occupies the site of present-day
Pasadena.

-----

I was hustled into a hut where a slave woman gave me food and water.
There was a great deal of noise and excitement outside, and through the
open doorway I could hear snatches of conversation as Kalkars passed to
and fro. From what I heard, I gathered that the defeat of the Kalkars
had been complete and that they were flying toward the coast and their
principal camp, called The Capital, which the slave woman told me lay a
few miles southwest. This, she said, was a wonderful camp, with tents
reaching so high into the heavens that often the Moon brushed against
their tops as she made her way through the sky.

They had released my hands, but my feet were still bound and two Kalkars
squatted just outside the door of the hut to see that I did not escape.
I asked the slave woman for some warm water to wash my wounds and she
prepared it for me. Not only that, the kindly soul saw to my wounds
herself, and after they had been cleansed she applied a healing lotion
which greatly soothed them, and then she bound them as best she could. I
felt much refreshed by this, and with the food and drink in me was quite
happy, for had I not accomplished what my people had been striving after
for a hundred years—a foothold on the western coast? This first victory
had been greater than I had dared to hope, and if I could but escape and
rejoin my people I felt that I could lead them to the waters of the
ocean with scarce a halt while the Kalkars still were suffering the
demoralization of defeat.

It was while I was thinking these thoughts that a Kalkar chief entered
the hut. Beyond the doorway the score of warriors that had accompanied
him, waited.

“Come!” commanded the Kalkar, motioning me to arise.

I pointed to my tethered ankles.

“Cut his bonds,” he directed the slave woman.

When I was free, I arose and followed the Kalkar without. Here the guard
surrounded me and we marched away between avenues of splendid trees such
as I never had seen before, to a tent of the ancients, a partially
ruined structure of imposing height that spread over a great area of
ground. It was lighted upon the inside by many flares and there were
guards at the entrance and slaves holding other flares.

They led me into a great chamber that must be much as the ancients left
it, though I had seen from the outside that in other places the roof of
the tent had fallen in and its walls were crumbling. There were many
Kalkars in this place, and at the far end of the room, upon a platform,
one sat alone on a huge, carved bench—a bench with a high back and
arms.

I was led before this man. He had a thin face and a long, thin nose, and
cruel lips and crafty eyes. His features, however, were good. He might
have passed in any company as a full-blood Yank. My guard halted me in
front of him.

“This is he, Jemadar,” said the chief who had fetched me.

“Who are you?” demanded the Jemadar, addressing me.

His tone did not please me. It was unpleasant and dictatorial. I am not
accustomed to that, even from equals, and a Julian has no superiors. I
looked upon him as scum. Therefore I did not reply.

He repeated his question angrily. I turned to the Kalkar chief who stood
at my elbow. “Tell this man that he is addressing a Julian,” I said,
“and that I do not like his manner. Let him ask for it in a more civil
tone if he wishes information.”

The eyes of the Jemadar narrowed angrily. He half rose from his bench.
“A Julian!” he exclaimed. “You are all Julians—but you are _the_
Julian. You are the Great Chief of the Julians. Tell me,” his tone
became suddenly civil, almost ingratiating, “is it not true that you are
_the_ Julian, The Red Hawk who led the desert hordes upon us?”

“I am Julian 20th, The Red Hawk,” I replied; “and you?”

“I am Or-tis, the Jemadar,” he replied.

“It has been long since an Or-tis and a Julian met,” I said.

“Heretofore they always have met as enemies,” he replied. “I have sent
for you to offer peace and friendship. For five hundred years we have
fought uselessly and senselessly because two of our forebears hated one
another. You are the 20th Julian, I am the 16th Or-tis. Never before
have we seen one another; yet we must be enemies. How silly!”

“There can be no friendship between a Julian and an Or-tis,” I replied,
coldly.

“There can be peace,” he said, “and friendship will come later, maybe
long after you and I are dead. There is room in this great, rich country
for us all. Go back to your people. I will send an escort with you and
rich presents. Tell them that the Kalkars would share their country with
the Yanks. You will rule half of it and I will rule the other half. If
the power of either is threatened, the other will come to his aid with
men and horses. We can live in peace and our people will prosper. What
say you?”

“I sent you my answer yesterday,” I told him. “It is the same today—the
only peace that you and I can share is the peace of death. There can be
but one ruler for this whole country and he will be a Julian—if not I,
the next in line. There is not room in all the world for both Kalkar and
Yank. For three hundred years we have been driving you toward the sea.
Yesterday we started upon the final drive that will not stop until the
last of you has been driven from the world you ruined. That is my
answer, Kalkar.”

“Take him away,” cried the Jemadar. “Send this message to his people: I
offer them peace on these terms—they may have all the country east and
southeast of a straight line drawn from the pass of the ancients south
to the sea; we will occupy the country to the west and northwest of that
line. If they accept I will send back their Great Chief. If they refuse,
he will go to The Butcher, and remind them that he will not be the first
Julian that an Or-tis has sent to The Butcher. If they accept, there are
to be no more wars between our people.”

They took me back then to the hut of the old slave woman and there I
slept until early morning, when I was awakened by a great commotion
without. Men were shouting orders and cursing as they ran hurriedly to
and fro. There was the trampling of horses’ feet, the clank and clatter
of trappings of war. Faintly, as from a great distance, I heard
presently, a familiar sound and my blood leaped in answer. It was the
war cry of my people, and beneath it ran the dull booming of their
drums.

“They come!” I must have spoken aloud, for the old slave woman turned
toward me.

“Let them come,” she said. “They cannot be worse than these others, and
it is time that we changed masters. It has been long now since the rule
of the ancients, who, it is said, were not unkind to us. Before them
were other ancients, and before those still others. Always they came
from far places, ruled us and went their way, displaced by others. Only
we remain, never changing. Like the coyote, the deer and the mountains
we have been here always. We belong to the land, we are the land—when
the last of our rulers has passed away we shall still be here, as we
were in the beginning—unchanged. They come and mix their blood with
ours, but in a few generations the last traces of it have disappeared,
swallowed up by the slow, unchanging flood of ours. You will come and
go, leaving no trace; but after you are forgotten we shall still be
here.”

Now Kalkars entered the hovel. They came hurriedly and as hurriedly
departed, taking me with them. My wrists were tied again and I was
almost thrown upon Red Lightning’s back. A moment later we were
swallowed up by the torrent of horsemen surging toward the southwest.

Less than two hours later we were entering the greatest camp that man
has ever looked upon. For miles we rode through it, our party now
reduced to the score of warriors who guarded me. The others had halted
at the outskirts of the camp to make a stand against my people and as we
rode through the strange trails of the camp we passed thousands upon
thousands of Kalkars rushing past us to defend The Capital.

We passed vast areas laid out in squares, as was the custom of the
ancients, a trail upon each side of the square, and within, the
grass-grown mounds that covered the fallen ruins of their tents. Now and
again a crumbling wall raised its ruin above the desolation, or some
more sturdily constructed structure remained almost intact except for
fallen roof and floors. As we advanced, we encountered more and more of
the latter, built of that strange, rock-like substance, the secret of
which has vanished with the ancients.

My guard turned in beneath the high arched entrance of a mighty
structure. From the filth of its spacious floor rose mighty columns of
polished stone, richly variegated. The tops of the columns were carved
and decorated in colors and in gold. The place was filled with horses,
tied to long lines that stretched almost the length of the room, from
column to column. At one end a broad flight of stone steps led upward to
the second floor. After we had dismounted I was led up these steps.
There were many Kalkars coming and going. We passed them as I was
conducted along a narrow avenue of polished white stone upon either side
of which were openings in the walls leading to other chambers.

Through one of these openings we turned into a large chamber, and there
I saw again the Or-tis whom I had seen the night before. He was standing
before one of the openings overlooking the trail below, talking with
several of his nobles. One of the latter glanced up and saw me as I
entered, calling the Jemadar’s attention to me. Or-tis faced me. He
spoke to one near him who stepped to another opening in the chamber and
motioned to someone without. Immediately a Kalkar guard entered bringing
a youth of one of my desert clans. At sight of me the young warrior
raised his hand to his forehead in salute.

“I give you another opportunity to consider my offer of last night,”
said the Or-tis, addressing me. “Here is one of your own men who can
bear your message to your people if you still choose to condemn them to
a futile and bloody struggle and with it he will bear a message from
me—that you go to The Butcher in the morning if your warriors do not
retire and your chiefs engage to maintain peace hereafter. In that event
you will be restored to your people. If you give me this promise
yourself, you may carry your own message to the tribes of Julian.”

“My answer,” I replied, “is the same as it was last night, as it will be
tomorrow.” Then I turned to the Yank warrior. “If you are permitted to
depart, go at once to The Vulture and tell him that my last command is
that he carry The Flag onward to the sea. That is all.”

The Or-tis was trembling with disappointment and rage. He laid a hand
upon the hilt of his sword and took a step toward me; but whatever he
intended, he thought better of it and stopped. “Take him above,” he
snapped to my guard; “and to The Butcher in the morning. I will be
present,” he said to me, “to see your head roll into the dust and your
carcass fed to the pigs.”

They took me from the chamber then and led me up and up along an endless
stairway, or at least it seemed endless before we finally reached the
highest floor of the great tent. There they pushed me into a chamber the
doorway to which was guarded by two giant warriors.

Squatted upon the floor of the chamber, his back leaning against the
wall, was a Kalkar. He glanced up at me as I entered, but said nothing.
I looked about the bare chamber, its floor littered with the dust and
debris of ages, its walls stained by the dirt and grease from the bodies
that had leaned against it, to the height of a man. I approached one of
the apertures in the front wall. Far below me, like a narrow buckskin
thong, lay the trail filled with tiny people and horses no bigger than
rabbits. I could see the pigs rooting in the filth—they and the dogs
are the scavengers of the camp.

For a long time I stood looking out over what was to me a strange
landscape. The tent in which I was confined was among the highest of the
nearer structures of the ancients, and from its upper floor I could see
a vast expanse of tent roofs, some of the structures apparently in an
excellent state of preservation, while here and there a grass-grown
mound marked the site of others that had fallen. Evidences of fire and
smoke were numerous and it was apparent that whatever the ancients had
built of other materials than their enduring stone had long since
disappeared, while many of the remaining buildings had been gutted by
flame and left mere shells, as was attested by hundreds of
smoke-blackened apertures within the range of my vision.

As I stood gazing out over distant hills beyond the limits of the camp I
became aware of a presence at my elbow. Turning I saw that it was the
Kalkar whom I had seen sitting against the wall as I entered the
chamber.

“Look well, Yank,” he said, in a not unpleasant voice, “for you have not
long to look.” He was smiling grimly. “We have a wonderful view from
here,” he continued; “on a clear day you can see the ocean and the
island.”

“I should like to see the ocean,” I said.

He shook his head. “You are very near,” he said, “but you will never see
it. I should like to see it again, myself; but I shall not.”

“Why?” I asked.

“I go with you to The Butcher in the morning,” he replied, simply.

“You?”

“Yes, I.”

“And why?”

“Because I am a true Or-tis,” he replied.

“Why should they send an Or-tis to The Butcher?” I demanded. “It is not
strange that an Or-tis should send me, _the_ Julian; but why should an
Or-tis send an Or-tis?”

“He is not a true Or-tis who sends me,” replied the man, and then he
laughed.

“Why do you laugh?”

“Is it not a strange joke of Fate,” he cried, “that sees _the_ Julian
and _the_ Or-tis going to The Butcher together? By the blood of my
sires! I think our feud be over, Julian, at least so far as you and I
are concerned.”

“It can never be over, Kalkar,” I replied.

He shook his head. “Had my father lived and carried out his plans, I
think it might have ended,” he insisted.

“While an Or-tis and a Julian lived? Never!”

“You are young, and the hate that has been suckled into you and yours
from your mothers’ breasts for ages runs hot in your veins; but my
father was old and he saw things as few of my kind, I imagine, ever have
seen them. He was a kindly man and very learned, and he came to hate the
Kalkars and the horrid wrong the first Or-tis did the world and our
people when he brought them hither from the Moon, even as you and yours
have hated them always. He knew the wrong and he wished to right it.
Already he had planned means whereby he might get into communication
with the Julians and join with them in undoing the crime that our
ancestor committed upon the world. He was Jemadar, but he would have
renounced his throne to be with his own kind again. Our blood strain is
as clear as yours—we are Americans. There is no Kalkar or half-breed
blood in our veins. There are perhaps a thousand others among us who
have brought down their birthright unsullied. These he would have
brought with him, for they all were tired of the Kalkar beasts.

“But some of the Kalkar nobles learned of the plan, and among them was
he who calls himself Or-tis and Jemadar. He is the son of a Kalkar woman
by a renegade uncle of mine. There is Or-tis blood in his veins, but a
drop of Kalkar makes one all Kalkar, therefore he is no Or-tis.

“He assassinated my father, and then set out to exterminate every
pure-blood Or-tis and all those other uncontaminated Americans who would
not swear fealty to him. Some have done so to save their hides, but many
have gone to The Butcher. In so far as I know, I am the last of the
Or-tis line. There were two brothers and a sister, all younger than I.
We scattered and I have not heard of them since, but I am sure that they
are all dead.

“Yes, if my father had lived the feud might have been ended; but
tomorrow The Butcher will end it. However, the other way would have been
better. What think you, Julian?”

I stood meditating in silence for a long time. I wondered if, after all,
the dead Jemadar’s way would not have been better.