IX
                               REVOLUTION

Then they threw me into the pen where the prisoners were kept, and after
they had left I was surrounded by the other unfortunates incarcerated
there. When they learned what I had done they shook their heads and
sighed. It would be all over with me in the morning, they said—nothing
less than The Butcher for such an offense as mine.

I lay upon the hard ground, bruised and sore, thinking not of my future
but of what was to befall Juana and Mother if I too, were taken from
them, and the thought gave me new strength and made me forget my hurts,
for my mind was busy with plans, mostly impossible plans, for
escape—and vengeance. Vengeance was often uppermost in my mind.

Above my head at intervals, I heard the pacing of the sentry upon the
roof. I could tell, of course, each time that he passed and the
direction in which he was going. It required about five minutes for him
to pass above me, reach the end of his post and return—that was when he
went west. Going east he took but a trifle over two minutes. Therefore,
when he passed me going west his back was toward me for about two and a
half minutes; but when he went east it was only for about a minute that
his face was turned from the spot where I lay.

Of course he could not see me while I lay beneath the shed; but my
plan—the one I finally decided upon—did not include remaining in the
shed. I had evolved several subtle schemes for escape; but finally cast
them all aside and chose, instead, the boldest that occurred to me. I
knew that at best the chances were small that I could succeed in any
plan and therefore the boldest seemed as likely as any other and it at
least had the advantage of speedy results—I would be free or I would be
dead in a few brief moments after I essayed it.

I waited therefore, until the other prisoners had quieted down and
comparative silence in the direction of the barracks and the parade
assured me that there were few abroad. The sentry came and went and came
again upon his monotonous round. Now he was coming toward me from the
east and I was ready, standing just outside the shed beneath the low
eaves which I could reach by jumping. I heard him pass and gave him a
full minute to gain the distance I thought necessary to drown the sounds
of my attempt from his ears and then I leaped for the eaves, caught with
my fingers and drew myself quickly to the roof.

I thought that I did it very quietly, but the fellow must have had the
ears of a hellhound, for no more had I drawn my feet beneath me for the
quick run across the roof than a challenge rang out from the direction
of the sentry and almost simultaneously the report of a rifle.

Instantly all was pandemonium. Guards ran, shouting, from all
directions, lights flashed in the barracks, rifles spoke from either
side of me and from behind me, while from below rose the dismal howlings
of the prisoners. It seemed then that a hundred men had known of my plan
and been lying in wait for me; but I was launched upon it and even
though I had regretted it, there was nothing to do but carry it through
to whatever was its allotted end.

It seemed a miracle that none of the bullets struck me; but of course,
it was dark and I was moving rapidly. It takes seconds to tell about it,
but it required less than a second for me to dash across the roof and
leap to the open ground beyond the prison pen. I saw lights moving west
of me, and so I ran east toward the lake and presently the firing ceased
as they lost sight of me, though I could hear sounds of pursuit.
Nevertheless, I felt that I had succeeded and was congratulating myself
upon the ease with which I had accomplished the seemingly impossible
when there suddenly rose before me out of the black night the figure of
a huge soldier pointing a rifle point blank at me. He issued no
challenge nor asked any question—just pulled the trigger. I could hear
the hammer strike the firing pin, but there was no explosion. I did not
know what the reason was, nor did I ever know. All that was apparent was
that the rifle missed fire and then he brought his bayonet into play
while I was springing toward him.

Foolish man! But then he did not know that it was Julian 9th he faced.
Pitifully, futilely he thrust at me and with one hand I seized the rifle
and tore it from his grasp. In the same movement I swung it behind me
and above my head, bringing it down with all the strength of one arm
upon his thick skull. Like a felled ox he tumbled to his knees and then
sprawled forward upon his face—his head crushed to a pulp. He never
knew how he died.

Behind me I heard them coming closer and they must have seen me, for
they opened fire again and I heard the beat of horses’ hoofs upon my
right and left. They were surrounding me upon three sides and upon the
fourth was the great lake. A moment later I was standing upon the edge
of the ancient breakwater while behind me rose the triumphant cries of
my pursuers. They had seen me and they knew that I was theirs.

At least, they thought they knew so. I did not wait for them to come
closer; but raising my hands above me I dove head foremost into the cool
waters of the lake, and swimming rapidly beneath the surface I kept
close in the shadows and headed north. I had spent much of my summer
life in the water of the river so that I was as much at home in that
liquid element as in air; but this of course, the Kash Guard did not
know, for even had they known that Julian 9th could swim they could not
at that time have known which prisoner it was who had escaped and so I
think they must have thought what I wanted them to think—that I had
chosen self-drowning to recapture.

However I was sure they would search the shore in both directions and so
I kept to the water after I came to the surface and when I was sure that
no one was directly above me I swam farther out until I felt there was
little danger of being seen from shore, for it was a dark night. And
thus I swam on until I thought I was opposite the mouth of the river,
when I turned toward the west, searching for it. Luck was with me. I
swam directly into it and a short distance up the sluggish stream before
I knew that I was out of the lake; but even then I did not take to the
shore, preferring to pass the heart of the ancient city before trusting
myself to land.

At last I came out upon the north bank of the river, which is farthest
from the Kash Guard barracks and made my way as swiftly as possible up
stream in the direction of my home. Here, hours later, I found an
anxious Juana awaiting me, for already she had heard what had transpired
in the market place. I had made my plans and had soon explained them to
Juana and Mother. There was nothing for them but to acquiesce, as only
death could be our lot if we remained in our homes another day. I was
astonished even, that they had not already fallen upon Juana and Mother.
As it was, they might come any minute—there was no time to lose.

Hastily wrapping up a few belongings I took The Flag from its hiding
place above the mantel and tucked it in my shirt—then we were ready.
Going to the pens we caught up Red Lightning and the two mares and three
of my best milk goats. These latter we tied, and after Juana and Mother
had mounted the mares I laid one goat in front of each across a mare’s
withers and the third before myself upon Red Lightning, who did not
relish the strange burden and gave me considerable trouble at first.

We rode out up-river, leaving the pens open that the goats might scatter
and possibly cover our trail until we could turn off the dusty path
beyond Jim’s house. We dared not stop to bid Jim and Mollie good-bye,
lest we be apprehended there by our enemies and bring trouble to our
good friends. It was a sad occasion for poor Mother, leaving thus her
home and those dear neighbors who had been as close to her as her own
people; but she was as brave as Juana, nor once did either of them
attempt to dissuade me from the wild scheme I had outlined to them.
Instead they encouraged me and Juana laid her hand upon my arm as I rode
beside her, saying: “I would rather that you died thus than that we
lived on as downtrodden serfs, without happiness and without hope.”

“I shall not die,” I said, “until my work is done at least, and then if
die I must, I shall be content to know that I leave a happier country
for my fellow men to live in.”

“Amen!” whispered Juana.

That night I hid them in the ruins of the old church which we found had
been partially burned by the Kalkars. For a moment I held them in my
arms—my mother and my wife—and then I left them to ride toward the
southwest and the coal mines. The mines lie about fifty miles
away—those to which our people are sent—and west of south, according
to what I had heard. I had never been to them; but I knew that I must
find the bed of an ancient canal and follow it through the district of
Joliet and between fifteen and twenty miles beyond, where I must turn
south, and after passing a large lake, I would presently come to the
mines. I rode the balance of the night and into the morning until I
commenced to see people astir in the thinly populated country through
which I passed. Then I hid in a wood through which a stream wound and
here found pasture for Red Lightning and rest for myself. I had brought
no food, leaving what little bread and cheese we had brought from the
house for Mother and Juana. I did not expect to be gone over a week and
I knew that with goat’s milk and what they had on hand in addition to
what they could find growing wild, there would be no danger of
starvation before I returned—after which we expected to live in peace
and plenty for the rest of our days.

My journey was less eventful than I had anticipated. I passed through a
few ruined villages and towns of greater or less antiquity, the largest
of which was ancient Joliet, which was abandoned during the plague of
fifty years ago, the teivos headquarters and station being removed
directly west a few miles to the banks of a little river. Much of the
territory I traversed was covered with thick woods, though here and
there were the remnants of clearings that must once have been farms
which were not yet entirely reclaimed by nature. Now and again I passed
those gaunt and lonely towers in which the ancients stored the winter
feed for their stock. Those that have endured were of concrete, and some
showed but little the ravages of time, other than the dense vines that
often covered them from base to capital, while several were in the midst
of thick forests with old trees almost entwining them, so quickly does
nature reclaim her own when man has been displaced.

After I passed Joliet I had to make inquiries, and this I did boldly of
the few men I saw laboring in the tiny fields scattered along my way.
They were poor clods, these descendants of ancient America’s rich and
powerful farming class—those people of olden times whose selfishness
had sought to throw the burden of taxation upon the city dwellers where
the ignorant foreign classes were most numerous and had thus added their
bit to fomenting the discontent that had worked the downfall of a
glorious nation. They themselves suffered much before they died, but
nothing by comparison with the humiliation and degradation of their
descendants—an illiterate, degraded, starving race.

Early in the second morning I came within sight of the stockade about
the mines. Even at a distance I could see that it was a weak,
dilapidated thing and that the sentries pacing along its top were all
that held the prisoners within. As a matter of fact, many escaped; but
they were soon hunted down and killed as the farmers in the neighborhood
always informed on them, since the commandant at the prison had
conceived the fiendish plan of slaying one farmer for every prisoner who
escaped and was not recaught.

I hid until night and then cautiously I approached the stockade, leaving
Red Lightning securely tied in the woods. It was no trick to reach the
stockade, so thoroughly was I hidden by the rank vegetation growing upon
the outside. From a place of concealment I watched the sentry, a big
fellow, but apparently a dull clod who walked with his chin upon his
breast and with the appearance of being half asleep.

The stockade was not high and the whole construction was similar to that
of the prison pen at Chicago, evidently having been designed by the same
commandant in years gone by. I could hear the prisoners conversing in
the shed beyond the wall and presently, when one came near to where I
listened, I tried to attract his attention by making a hissing sound.

After what seemed a long time to me, he heard me; but even then it was
some time before he appeared to grasp the idea that someone was trying
to attract his attention. When he did he moved closer and tried to peer
through one of the cracks; but as it was dark outside he could see
nothing.

“Are you a Yank?” I asked. “If you are, I am a friend.”

“I am a Yank,” he replied. “Did you expect to find a Kalkar working in
the mines?”

“Do you know a prisoner called Julian 8th?” I inquired.

He seemed to be thinking for a moment and then he said: “I seem to have
heard the name. What do you want of him?”

“I want to speak to him—I am his son.”

“Wait!” he whispered. “I think that I heard a man speak that name today.
I will find out—he is near by.”

I waited for perhaps ten minutes when I heard someone approaching from
the inside and presently a voice asked if I was still there.

“Yes,” I said; “is that you, Father?” for I thought that the tones were
his.

“Julian, my son!” came to me almost as a sob. “What are you doing here?”

Briefly I told him and then of my plan. “Have the convicts the courage
to attempt it?” I asked in conclusion.

“I do not know,” he said, and I could not but note the tone of utter
hopelessness in his voice. “They would wish to; but here our spirits and
our bodies both are broken. I do not know how many would have the
courage to attempt it. Wait and I will talk with some of them—all are
loyal; but just weak from overwork, starvation and abuse.”

I waited for the better part of an hour before he returned. “Some will
help,” he said, “from the first, and others if we are successful. Do you
think it worth the risk—they will kill you if you fail—they will kill
us all.”

“And what is death to that which you are suffering?” I asked.

“I know,” he said; “but the worm impaled upon the hook still struggles
and hopes for life. Turn back, my son, we can do nothing against them.”

“I shall not turn back,” I whispered. “I shall not turn back.”

“I will help you; but I cannot speak for the others.”

We had spoken only when the sentry had been at a distance, falling into
silence each time he approached the point where we stood. In the
intervals of silence I could hear the growing restlessness of the
prisoners and I guessed that what I had said to the first man was being
passed around from mouth to mouth within until already the whole
adjacent shed was seething with something akin to excitement. I wondered
if it would arouse their spirit sufficiently to carry them through the
next ten minutes. If it did, success was assured.

Father had told me all that I wanted to know—the location of the guard
house and the barracks and the number of Kash Guard posted here—only
fifty men to guard five thousand! How much more eloquently than words
did this fact bespeak the humiliation of the American people and the
utter contempt in which our scurvy masters held us—fifty men to guard
five thousand!

And then I started putting my plan into execution—a mad plan which had
only its madness to recommend it. The sentry approached and came
opposite where I stood, and I leaped for the eaves as I had leaped for
the eaves of the prison pen at Chicago, only this time I leaped from the
outside where the eaves are closer to the ground and so the task was
easier. I leaped for them and caught them, and then I scrambled up
behind the sentry and before his dull wits told him that there was
someone behind him I was upon his back and the same fingers that threw a
mad bull closed upon his wind pipe. The struggle was brief—he died
quickly and I lowered him to the roof. Then I took his uniform from him
and donned it, with his ammunition belt, and I took his bayonetted rifle
and started out upon his post, walking with slow tread and with my chin
upon my breast as he had walked.

At the end of my post I waited for the sentry I saw coming upon the next
and when he was close to me I turned back and he turned back away from
me and then I wheeled and struck him an awful blow upon the head with my
rifle. He died more quickly than the other—instantly, I should say.

I took his rifle and ammunition from him and lowered them inside the pen
to waiting hands, and then I went on to the next sentry and the next,
until I had slain five more and passed their rifles to the prisoners
below and while I was doing this, five prisoners who had volunteered to
Father climbed to the roof of the shed and stripped the dead men of
their uniforms and donned them.

It was all done quietly and in the black night none might see what was
going on fifty feet away. I had to stop when I came near to the guard
house. There I turned back and presently slid into the pen with my
accomplices who had been going among the other prisoners with Father,
arousing them to mutiny. Now were most of them ready to follow me, for
so far my plan had proven successful. With equal quietness we overcame
the men at the guard house and then moved on in a silent body toward the
barracks.

So sudden and so unexpected was our attack that we met with little
resistance and we were almost five thousand to forty now. We swarmed in
upon them like wild bees upon a foe and we shot them and bayonetted them
until none remained alive. Not one escaped. And now we were flushed with
success so that the most spiritless became a veritable lion for courage.

We who had taken the uniforms of the Kash Guard discarded them for our
own garb as we had no mind to go abroad in the hated livery of our
oppressors. That very night we saddled their horses with the fifty
saddles that were there and fifty men rode the balance of the horses
bareback—that made one hundred mounted men and the others were to
follow on foot—on to Chicago. On to Chicago, was our first slogan.

We traveled cautiously, though I had difficulty in making them do so, so
intoxicated were they with their first success. I wanted to save the
horses and also I wanted to get as many men into Chicago as possible, so
we let the weakest ride, though I had a time of it getting Red Lightning
to permit another on his sleek back.

Some fell out upon the way, from exhaustion or from fear, for the nearer
Chicago we approached the more their courage ebbed. The very thought of
the feared Kalkars and their Kash Guards took the marrow from the hearts
of many. I do not know that one may blame them, for the spirit of man
can endure only so much and when it is broken only a miracle can mend it
in the same generation.

We reached the ruined church a week from the day I left Mother and Juana
there and we reached it with less than two thousand men, so rapid had
been the desertions in the last few miles before we entered the
district.

Father and I could scarcely wait to see our loved ones and so we rode on
ahead to greet them, and inside the church we found three dead goats and
a dying woman—my mother with a knife protruding from her breast. She
was still conscious when we entered and I saw a great light of happiness
in her eyes as they fell upon Father and upon me. I looked around for
Juana and my heart stood still, fearing that I would not find her—and
fearing that I would.

Mother could still speak, and as we leaned over her as Father held her
in his arms she breathed a faint story of what had befallen them. They
had lived in peace until that very day when the Kash Guard had stumbled
upon them—a large detachment under Or-tis, himself. They had seized
them to take them away; but Mother had had a knife hidden in her
clothing and had utilized it, as we saw, rather than suffer the fate she
knew awaited them. That was all, except that Juana had had no knife and
Or-tis had carried her off.

I saw Mother die then, in Father’s arms, and I helped him bury her after
our men came and we had shown them what the beasts had done, though they
knew well enough and had suffered themselves enough to know what was to
be expected of the swine.