I
                                THE FLAG

I was born in the teivos of Chicago, January 1, 2100, to Julian 8th and
Elizabeth James. My father and mother were not married, as marriages had
long since become illegal. I was called Julian 9th. My parents were of
the rapidly diminishing intellectual class and could both read and
write. This learning they imparted to me, although it was very useless
learning—it was their religion. Printing was a lost art, and the last
of the public libraries had been destroyed almost a hundred years before
I reached maturity, so there was little or nothing to read, while to
have a book in one’s possession was to brand one as of the hated
intellectuals, arousing the scorn and derision of the Kalkar rabble and
the suspicion and persecution of the lunar authorities who ruled us.

The first twenty years of my life were uneventful. As a boy I played
among the crumbling ruins of what must once have been a magnificent
city. Pillaged, looted and burned half a hundred times, Chicago still
reared the skeletons of some mighty edifices above the ashes of her
former greatness. As a youth, I regretted the departed romance of the
long-gone days of my forefathers when the Earth Men still retained
sufficient strength to battle for existence. I deplored the quiet
stagnation of my own time with only an occasional murder to break the
monotony of our black existence. Even the Kalkar Guard, stationed on the
shore of the great lake, seldom harassed us, unless there came an urgent
call from higher authorities for an additional tax collection, for we
fed them well and they had the pick of our women and young
girls—almost, but not quite, as you shall see.

The commander of the guard had been stationed here for years, and we
considered ourselves very fortunate in that he was too lazy and indolent
to be cruel or oppressive. His tax collectors were always with us on
market days; but they did not exact so much that we had nothing left for
ourselves, as refugees from Milwaukee told us was the case there. I
recall one poor devil from Milwaukee who staggered into our market place
of a Saturday. He was nothing more than a bag of bones, and he told us
that fully ten thousand people had died of starvation the preceding
month in his teivos. The word teivos is applied impartially to a
district and to the administrative body that mis-administers its
affairs. No one knows what the word really means, though my mother has
told me that her grandfather said that it came from another world, the
Moon, like Kash Guard, which also means nothing in particular—one
soldier is a Kash Guard, ten thousand soldiers are a Kash Guard. If a
man comes with a piece of paper upon which something is written that you
are not supposed to be able to read and kills your grandmother or
carries off your sister, you say: “The Kash Guard did it.”

Three Saturdays a month, the tax collectors were in the market places
appraising our wares, and on the last Saturday they collected one per
cent of all we had bought or sold during the month. Nothing had any
fixed value—today you might haggle half an hour in trading a pint of
beans for a goat skin, and next week if you wanted beans the chances
were more than excellent that you would have to give four or five goat
skins for a pint, and the tax collectors took advantage of that—they
appraised on the basis of the highest market values for the month.

My father had a few long-haired goats—they were called Montana goats;
but he said they really were Angoras, and Mother used to make cloth from
their fleece. With the cloth, the milk, and the flesh from our goats we
lived very well, having also a small vegetable garden beside our house;
but there were some necessities that we must purchase in the market
place, it being against the law to barter in private, as the tax
collectors would then have known nothing about a man’s income.

After supper one night Father and I went out and milked the goats and
saw that the sheds were secured for the night against the dogs. It seems
as though they become more numerous and more bold each year. They run in
packs now where there were only individuals when I was a little boy, and
it is scarce safe for a grown man to travel an unfrequented locality at
night. We are not permitted to have firearms in our possession, nor even
bows and arrows, so we cannot exterminate them, and they seem to realize
our weakness, coming close in among the houses and pens at night. They
are large brutes—fearless and powerful. There is one pack more
formidable than the others which Father says appears to carry a strong
strain of collie and Airedale blood—the members of this pack are large,
cunning, and ferocious, and are becoming a terror to the city—we call
them the hellhounds.

After we returned to the house with the milk, Jim Thompson and his
woman, Mollie Sheehan, came over. They live up the river about half a
mile, on the next farm, and are our best friends. They are the only
people that Father and Mother really trust, so when we are all together
alone we speak our minds very freely. It seemed strange to me, even as a
boy, that such big, strong men as Father and Jim should be afraid to
express their real views to anyone, and though I was born and reared in
an atmosphere of suspicion and terror, I could never quite reconcile
myself to the attitude of servility and cowardice which marked us all.

And yet I knew that my father was no coward. He was a fine looking man,
tall and wonderfully muscled, and I have seen him fight with men and
with dogs. Once he defended Mother against a Kash Guard, and with his
bare hands he killed the armed soldier. He lies in the center of the
goat pen now, his rifle, bayonet, and ammunition wrapped in many
thicknesses of oiled cloth beside him. We left no trace and were never
even suspected; but we know where there is a rifle, a bayonet, and
ammunition.

Jim had had trouble with Soor, the new tax collector, and was very
angry. Jim was a big man, and like Father, was always smooth shaven as
were nearly all Americans, as we called those whose people had lived
here long before the Great War. The others—the true Kalkars—grew no
beards. Their ancestors had come from the Moon many years before. They
had come in strange ships year after year, but finally, one by one,
their ships had been lost, and as none of them knew how to build others
or the engines that operated them, the time came when no more Kalkars
could come from the Moon to Earth.

Jim was terribly mad. He said that he couldn’t stand it much
longer—that he would rather be dead than live in such an awful world;
but I was accustomed to such talk—I had heard it since infancy. Life
was a hard thing—just work, work, work for a scant existence over and
above the income tax. No pleasures—few conveniences or comforts;
absolutely no luxuries—and worst of all, no hope. It was seldom that
anyone smiled—anyone in our class—and the grown-ups never laughed. As
children we laughed—a little; not much. It is hard to kill the spirit
of childhood; but the brotherhood of man had almost done it.

Father placed his hand upon Jim’s shoulder.

“We must not weaken, my friend,” he said. “I often feel the same way,”
and then he walked quickly across the room to the fireplace and removed
a stone above the rough, wooden mantel. Reaching his hand into the
aperture behind, he turned toward us. “But cowed and degraded as I have
become,” he cried, “thank God I still have a spark of manhood left—I
have had the strength to defy them as my fathers defied them—I have
kept this that has been handed down to me—kept it for my son to hand
down to his son—and I have taught him to die for it as his forefathers
died for it and as I would die for it, gladly.”

He drew forth a small bundle of fabric, and holding the upper corners
between the fingers of his two hands he let it unfold before us—an
oblong cloth of alternate red and white stripes with a blue square in
one corner, upon which were sewn many little white stars.

Jim and Mollie and Mother rose to their feet and I saw Mother cast an
apprehensive glance toward the doorway. For a moment they stood thus in
silence, looking with wide eyes upon the thing that Father held, and
then Jim walked slowly toward it, and kneeling, took the edge of it in
his great, horny fingers and pressed it to his lips. The candle upon the
rough table, sputtering in the spring wind that waved the goat skin at
the window, cast its feeble rays upon them.

“It is The Flag, my son,” said Father to me. “It is Old Glory—the flag
of your fathers—the flag that made the world a decent place to live in.
It is death to possess it; but when I am gone, take it and guard it as
our family has guarded it since the regiment that carried it came back
from the Argonne.”

I felt tears filling my eyes—why, I could not have told them—and I
turned away to hide them—turned toward the window and there, beyond the
waving goat skin, I saw a face in the outer darkness. I have always been
quick of thought and of action; but I never thought or moved more
quickly in my life than I did in the instant following my discovery of
the face in the window. With a single movement I swept the candle from
the table, plunging the room into utter darkness, and leaping to my
father’s side I tore The Flag from his hands and thrust it back into the
aperture above the mantel. The stone lay upon the mantel itself, nor did
it take me but a moment to grope for it and find it in the dark—an
instant more and it was replaced in its niche.

So ingrained were apprehension and suspicion in the human mind that the
four in the room with me sensed intuitively something of the cause of my
act, and when I had hunted for the candle, found it and relighted it
they were standing, tense and motionless, where I had last seen them.
They did not ask me a question, for if they suspicioned correctly they
knew that we must not talk upon the subject. Father was the first to
speak.

“You were very careless and clumsy, Julian,” he said. “If you wanted the
candle, why did you not pick it up carefully instead of rushing at it
so? But that is always your way—you are constantly knocking things
over.” He raised his voice a trifle as he spoke; but it was a lame
attempt at deception and he knew it, as did we. If the man who owned the
face in the dark heard his words he must have known it as well.

As soon as I had relighted the candle I went into the kitchen and out
the back door and then, keeping close in the black shadow of the house,
I crept around toward the front, for I wanted to learn, if I could, who
it was who had looked in upon that scene of high treason. The night was
moonless but clear, and I could see quite a distance in every direction
as our house stood in a fair sized clearing close to the river.
Southeast of us the path wound upward across the approach to an ancient
bridge, long since destroyed by raging mobs or rotted away—I do not
know which—and presently I saw the figure of a man silhouetted against
the starlit sky as he topped the approach. The man carried a laden sack
upon his back. This fact was to some extent reassuring, as it suggested
that the eavesdropper was himself upon some illegal mission and that he
could ill afford to be too particular of the actions of others. I have
seen many men carrying sacks and bundles at night—I have carried them
myself. It is the only way often, in which a man may save enough from
the tax collector on which to live and support his family.

I did not follow the man, being sure that he was one of our own class;
but turned back toward the house where I found the four talking in low
whispers, nor did any of us raise his voice again that evening.

It must have been three-quarters of an hour later, as Jim and Mollie
were preparing to leave, that there came a knock upon the door, which
immediately swung open before an invitation to enter could be given. We
looked up to see Peter Johansen smiling at us. I never liked Peter. He
was a long, lanky man who smiled with his mouth; but never with his
eyes. I didn’t like the way he used to look at Mother when he thought no
one was observing him, nor his habit of changing women every year or
two—that was too much like the Kalkars. I always felt toward Peter as I
had as a child when, barefooted, I stepped unknowingly upon a snake in
the deep grass.

Father greeted the newcomer with a pleasant “Welcome, Brother Johansen”;
but Jim only nodded his head and scowled, for Peter had a habit of
looking at Mollie as he did at Mother, and both women were beautiful. I
think I never saw a more beautiful woman than my mother, and as I grew
older and learned more of men and the world I marveled that Father had
been able to keep her, and too, I understood why she never went abroad,
but stayed always closely about the house and farm. I never knew her to
go to the market place as did most of the other women. But I was twenty
now and worldly wise and so I knew what I had not known as a little
child.

“What brings you out so late, Brother Johansen?” I asked. We always used
the prescribed “Brother” to those of whom we were not sure. I hated the
word—to me a brother meant an enemy as it did to all our class and I
guess to every class—even the Kalkars.

“I followed a stray pig,” replied Peter to my question. “He went in that
direction,” and he waved a hand toward the market place. As he did so
something tumbled from beneath his coat—something that his arm had held
there. It was an empty sack. Immediately I knew who it was who owned the
face in the dark beyond our goat skin hanging. Peter snatched the sack
from the floor in ill-concealed confusion, and then I saw the expression
of his cunning face change as he held it toward Father.

“Is this yours, Brother Julian?” he asked. “I found it just before your
door and thought that I would stop and ask.”

“No,” said I, not waiting for Father to speak, “it is not ours—it must
belong to the man I saw carrying it full, a short time since. He went by
the path beside The Old Bridge.” I looked straight into Peter’s eyes. He
flushed and then went white.

“I did not see him,” he said presently; “but if the sack is not yours I
will keep it—_at least it is not high treason to have it in my
possession_,” and then without another word, he turned and left the
house.

We all knew then that Peter had seen the episode of The Flag. Father
said that we need not fear, that Peter was all right; but Jim thought
differently and so did Mollie and Mother. I agreed with them. I did not
like Peter. Jim and Mollie went home shortly after Peter left, and we
prepared for bed.