III
                               ARMAGEDDON

Very quietly we crept down among the orange groves, nearer, ever nearer
to the sleeping foe. Somewhere to the west of us, beneath the silvery
moon, The Rattlesnake was creeping stealthily forward to strike.
Presently the stillness of the night would be broken by the booming of
his war drums and the hoarse war-cries of his savage horde. It would be
the signal that would send The Wolf down from the mountain heights above
them and The Red Hawk from the orange groves below them to sink fang and
talon into the flesh of the hated Kalkars, and ever The Rattlesnake
would be striking at their heels.

Silently we awaited the signal from The Rattlesnake. A thousand bowmen
unslung their bows and loosened arrows in their quivers; swords were
readjusted, their hilts ready to the hand; men spat upon their right
palms that their lance grip might be the surer. The night dragged on
toward dawn. The success of my plan depended upon a surprise attack
while the foe slept. I knew that The Rattlesnake would not fail me, but
something must have delayed him. I gave the signal to advance silently.
Like shadows we moved through the orange groves and deployed along a
front two miles in length, a thousand bowmen in the lead and behind
these, line after line of lancers and swordsmen. Slowly we moved forward
toward the sleeping camp. How like the lazy, stupid Kalkars that no
sentries were posted at their rear. Doubtless there were plenty of them
on the front exposed to The Wolf. Where they could see an enemy they
could prepare for him, but they have not imagination enough to foresee
aught. Only the desert and their great numbers have saved them from
extermination during the past hundred years.

Scarce a mile away now we could catch occasional glimpses of the dying
embers of the nearest fires, and then from the east there rolled across
the valley the muffled booming of distant war drums. A momentary silence
followed and then faintly, there broke upon our ears the war-cries of
our people. At my signal our own drums shattered the silence that had
surrounded us. It was the signal for the charge. From twenty thousand
savage throats rose the awful cries of battle, twenty thousand pairs of
reins were loosed and eighty thousand iron-shod hoofs set the earth
atremble as they thundered down upon the startled enemy, and from the
heights above came the growl of the drums of The Wolf and the eerie
howls of his painted horde.

It was dawn as we smote the camp. Our bowmen, guiding their mounts with
their knees and the swing of their bodies, raced among the bewildered
Kalkars, loosing their barbed shafts into the cursing, shrieking mob
that fled before them only to be ridden down and trampled by their
horses’ feet.

Behind the bowmen came the lancers and the swordsmen thrusting and
cutting at those who survived. From our left came the tumult of The
Rattlesnake’s assault and from far ahead and above us the sounds of
battle proclaimed that The Wolf had fallen on the foe.

Ahead I could see the tents of the Kalkar leaders and toward these I
spurred Red Lightning. Here would be the representatives of the house of
Or-tis and here would the battle center. Ahead the Kalkars were forming
in some semblance of order to check and repel us. They are huge men and
ferocious fighters, but I could see that our surprise attack had
unnerved them. They gave before us, before their chiefs could organize
them for resistance, yet again and again they reformed and faced us. We
were going more slowly now, the battle had become largely a matter of
hand-to-hand combats; they were checking us, but they were not stopping
us. So great were their numbers that even had they been unarmed it would
have been difficult to force our horses through their massed ranks. Back
of their front line they were saddling and mounting their horses, which
those who had borne the brunt of our first onslaught had been unable to
do. We had cut the lines to which their animals had been tethered and
driven them, terrified, ahead of us to add to the confusion of the
enemy. Riderless horses were everywhere, those of the Kalkars and many
of our own, whose riders had fallen in battle. The tumult was appalling,
for to the shrieks of the wounded and the groans of the dying were added
the screams of stricken horses and the wild, hoarse war-cries of
battle-maddened men, and underlying all, the dull booming of the war
drums. Above us waved The Flag, and here were the drums and a massed
guard of picked men. The Flag and the drums moved forward as we moved.
And near me was the clan flag of my family with the red hawk upon it and
with it were its drums. In all there were a hundred clan flags upon that
field this day, and the drums of each rolled out, incessantly, defiance
of the enemy.

Their horsemen now were rallied, and the dismounted men were falling
back behind them and presently a Kalkar chief upon a large horse
confronted me. Already was my blade red with their blood. I had thrown
away my lance long since, for we were fighting in too close quarters for
its effective use, but the Kalkar had his spear, and there was a little
open space between us. In the instant he crouched and put spurs to his
horse and bore down upon me.

He was a large man as most Kalkars are, for they have bred with that
alone in mind for five hundred years, so that many of them are seven
feet in height and over. He looked very fierce, did this fellow, with
his great bulk and his little, blood-shot eyes. He wore a war bonnet of
iron to protect his head from sword cuts and a vest of iron covered his
chest against the thrusts of sword or lance, or the barbed tips of
arrows. We Julians, or Americans, disdain such protection, choosing to
depend upon our skill and agility, not hampering ourselves and our
horses with the weight of all this metal.

My light shield was on my left forearm and in my right hand I grasped my
two-edged sword. A pressure of my knees, an inclination of my body, a
word in his pointed ear were all that was needed to make Red Lightning
respond to my every wish, even though the reins hung loose upon his
withers.

The fellow bore down upon me with a loud yell and Red Lightning leaped
to meet him. The Kalkar’s point was set straight at my chest and I had
only a sword on that side to deflect it, and at that I think I might
have done so had I cared to try, even though the Kalkar carries a heavy
lance and this one was backed by a heavy man and a heavy horse. With my
left hand I grasped Red Lightning’s mane and at the instant that the
Kalkar thought to see his point tear through my chest I swung from my
saddle and lay flat against Red Lightning’s near side, while the Kalkar
and his spear brushed harmlessly past an empty saddle. Empty for but an
instant though. Swinging back to my seat in the instant that I wheeled
Red Lightning I was upon the Kalkar from the rear even as the fighting
mass before him brought him to a halt. He was swinging to have at me
again, but even as he faced me my sword swung down upon his iron bonnet,
driving pieces of it through his skull and into his brain. A fellow on
foot cut viciously at me at the instant I was recovering from the blow I
had dealt the mounted Kalkar, so that I was able only to partially parry
with my shield, with the result that his point opened up my right arm at
the shoulder—a flesh wound, but one that bled profusely, though it did
not stay the force of my return, which drove through his collarbone and
opened up his chest to his heart.

Once again I spurred in the direction of the tents of the Or-tis, above
which floated the red banners of the Kalkars, around which were massed
the flower of the Kalkar forces; too thickly massed, perhaps, for most
effective defense, since we were driving them in from three sides and
packing them there as tightly as eggs in the belly of a she-salmon. But
now they surged forward and drove us back by weight of numbers, and now
we threw ourselves upon them again until they, in their turn, were
forced to give the ground that they had won. Sometimes the force of our
attack drove them to one side while at another point their warriors were
pushing out into the very body of the massed clans, so that here and
there our turning movements would cut off a detachment of the enemy, or
again a score or more of our own men would be swallowed by the milling
Kalkar horde, until as the day wore on, the great field became a jumbled
mass of broken detachments of Julian and Kalkar warriors surging back
and forth over a bloody shambles, the iron shoes of their reeking mounts
trampling the corpse of friend and foe alike into the gory mire.

Once, late in the afternoon, during a lull in the battle, I sat looking
about the chaos of the field. Red with our own blood from a score of
wounds and with the blood of friend and foe, Red Lightning and I stood
panting in the midst of the welter. The tents of the Or-tis lay south of
us—we had fought half way around them—but they were scarce a hundred
yards nearer for all those bitter hours of battle. Some of the warriors
of The Wolf were near me, showing how far that old, grey chief had
fought his way since dawn, and presently behind a mask of blood I saw
the flashing eyes of The Wolf himself, scarce twenty feet away.

“The Wolf!” I cried and he looked up and smiled in recognition.

“The Red Hawk is red indeed,” he bantered; “but his pinions are yet
unclipped.”

“And the fangs of The Wolf are yet undrawn,” I replied.

A great Kalkar, blowing like a spent hound, was sitting his tired horse
between us. At our words he raised his head. “You are The Red Hawk?” he
asked.

“I am The Red Hawk,” I replied.

“I have been searching for you these two hours,” he said.

“I have not been far, Kalkar,” I told him; “what would you of The Red
Hawk?”

“I bear word from Or-tis the Jemadar.”

“What word has an Or-tis for a Julian?” I demanded.

“The Jemadar would grant you peace,” he explained.

I laughed. “There is only one peace which we may share together,” I
said, “and that is the peace of death—that peace I will grant him, and
he will come hither and meet me. There is nothing that an Or-tis has the
power to _grant_ a Julian.”

“He would stop the fighting while you and he discuss the terms of
peace,” insisted the Kalkar. “He would stop this bloody strife that must
eventually annihilate both Kalkar and Yank.” He used an ancient term
which the Kalkars have applied to us for ages in a manner of contempt,
but which we have been taught to consider as an appellation of honor,
though its very meaning is unknown to us and its derivation lost in
antiquity.

“Go back to your Jemadar,” I said, “and tell him that the world is not
wide enough to support both Kalkar and Yank, Or-tis and Julian; that the
Kalkars must slay us to the last man or be slain.”

He wheeled his horse toward the tent of the Or-tis and The Wolf bade his
warriors let him pass. Soon he was swallowed by the close-packed ranks
of his own people, and then a Kalkar struck at one of us from behind and
the battle raged again.

How many men had fallen one might not even guess, but the corpses of
warriors and horses lay so thick that the living mounts could but climb
and stumble over them and sometimes barriers of them nearly man-high lay
between me and the nearest foeman so that I was forced to jump Red
Lightning over the gory obstacle to find new flesh for my blade. And
then, slowly, night descended until man could not tell foe from friend,
but I called to my tribesmen about me to pass along the word that we
would not move from our ground that night, staying on for the first
streak of dawn that would permit us to tell a Kalkar from a Yank.

All through the night we heard a considerable movement of men and horses
among the Kalkars, and we judged that they were reforming for the dawn’s
attack, and then quite suddenly and without warning of any sort, we saw
a black mass moving down upon us. It was the Kalkars—the entire body of
them—and they rode straight for us, not swiftly, for the corpse-strewn,
slippery ground prevented that; but steadily, overwhelmingly, like a
great, slow-moving river of men and horses. They swept into us and over
us, or they carried us along with them. Their first line broke upon us
in a bloody wave and went down and those behind passed over the corpses
of those that had fallen. We hacked until our tired arms could scarce
raise a blade shoulder high. Kalkars went down screaming in agony, but
they could not halt, they could not retreat, for the great, ever-moving
mass behind them pushed them onward, nor could they turn to right or
left because we hemmed them in on both flanks, nor could they flee
ahead, for there, too, were we.

Borne on by this resistless tide I was carried with it. It surrounded
me. It pinioned my arms at my sides. It crushed my legs. It even tore my
sword from my hand. At times, when the force ahead stemmed it for a
moment, and the force behind continued to push on, it rose in the center
until horses were lifted from the ground, and then those behind sought
to climb over the backs of those in front, until the latter were borne
to earth and the others passed over their struggling forms, or the
obstacle before gave way and the flood smoothed out and passed along
again between the flashing banks of Julian blades, hewing, ever hewing,
at the Kalkar stream. Never have I looked upon such a sight as the moon
revealed that night—never in the memory or the tradition of man has
there been such a holocaust. Thousands upon thousands of Kalkars must
have fallen upon the edge of that torrent as it swept its slow way
between the blades of my painted warriors, who hacked at the living mass
until their arms fell numb at their sides, and then gave way to the
eager thousands pressing from behind.

And ever onward I was borne, helpless to extricate myself from the
sullen, irresistible flood that carried me southward down the broadening
valley. The Kalkars about me did not seem to realize that I was an
enemy, or notice me in any way, so intent were they upon escape.
Presently we had passed the field of yesterday’s thickest fighting, the
ground was no longer strewn with corpses and the speed of the rout
increased, and as it did so the massed warriors spread to right and left
sufficiently to permit more freedom of individual action, still not
enough to permit me to worm my way from the current.

That I was attempting to do so, however, was what attracted attention to
me at first and then the single red hawk feather and my other trappings,
so different from those of the Kalkars.

“A Yank!” cried one near me and another drew his sword and struck at me,
but I warded the blow with my shield as I drew my knife, a pitiful
weapon wherewith to face a swordsman.

“Hold!” cried a voice of authority near by. “It is he whom they call The
Red Hawk, their chief. Take him alive to the Jemadar.”

I tried to break through their lines, but they closed in upon me, and
though I used my knife to good effect upon several of them they overbore
me with their numbers, and then one of them must have struck me upon the
head with the flat of his sword, for of a sudden everything went black,
and of that moment I remember only reeling in my saddle.