III
                         BROTHER GENERAL OR-TIS

The next day I set out as usual to peddle goat’s milk. We were permitted
to trade in perishable things on other than market days, though we had
to make a strict accounting for all such bartering. I usually left
Mollie until the last as Jim had a deep, cold well on his place where I
liked to quench my thirst after my morning trip; but today Mollie got
her milk fresh and first and early—about half an hour earlier than I
was wont to start out.

When I knocked and she had bade me enter and saw who it was, she looked
surprised at first, for just an instant, and then a strange expression
came into her eyes—half amusement, half pity—and she rose and went
into the kitchen for the milk jar. I saw her wipe the corners of her
eyes with the back of one finger; but I did not understand why—not
then.

The stranger girl had been in the kitchen helping Mollie, and the latter
must have told her I was there, for she came right in and greeted me. It
was the first good look I had had of her, for candle light is not
brilliant at best. If I had been enthralled the evening before, there is
no word in my limited vocabulary to express the effect she had on me by
daylight. She—but it is useless, I cannot describe her!

It took Mollie a long time to find the milk jar, bless her, though it
seemed short enough to me, and while she was finding it the stranger
girl and I were getting acquainted. First she asked after Father and
Mother and then she asked our names. When I told her mine she repeated
it several times to herself in a low voice. “Julian 9th,” she said,
“Julian 9th!” and then she smiled up at me. “It is a nice name, I like
it.”

“And what is your name?” I asked.

“Juana,” she said—she pronounced it Whanna; “Juana St. John.”

“I am glad,” I said, “that you like my name; but I like yours better.”
It was a very foolish speech, and it made me feel silly; but she did not
seem to think it foolish, or if she did, she was too nice to let me know
it. I have known many girls; but mostly they were homely and stupid. The
pretty girls were seldom allowed in the market place—that is, the
pretty girls of our class. The Kalkars permitted their girls to go
abroad for they did not care who got them, as long as someone got them;
but American fathers and mothers would rather slay their girls than send
them to the market place, and the former often was done. The Kalkar
girls, even those born of American mothers, were coarse and brutal in
appearance—low-browed, vulgar, bovine. No stock can be improved, or
even kept to its normal plane, unless high grade males are used.

This girl was so entirely different from any other that I had ever seen
that I marveled that such a glorious creature could exist. I wanted to
know all about her. It seemed to me that in some way I had been robbed
of my right for many years that she should have lived and breathed and
talked and gone her way without my ever knowing it, or her. I wanted to
make up for lost time and so I asked her many questions.

She told me that she had been born and raised in the teivos just west of
Chicago, which extended along the Desplaines River and embraced a
considerable area of unpopulated country and scattered farms.

“My father’s home is in a district called Oak Park,” she said, “and our
house was one of the few that remained from ancient times. It was of
solid concrete and stood upon the corner of two roads—once it must have
been a very beautiful place, and even time and war have been unable
entirely to erase its charm. Three great poplar trees rose to the north
of it beside the ruins of what my father said was once a place where
motor cars were kept by the long dead owner. To the south of the house
were many roses, growing wild and luxuriant, while the concrete walls,
from which the plaster had fallen in great patches, were almost entirely
concealed by the clinging ivy that reached to the very eaves.

“It was my home and so I loved it; but now it is lost to me forever. The
Kash Guard and the tax collector came seldom—we were too far from the
station and the market place, which lay southwest of us, on Salt Creek.
But recently the new Jemadar Jarth appointed another commandant and a
new tax collector. They did not like the station at Salt Creek and so
they sought for a better location, and after inspecting the district
they chose Oak Park, and my father’s home being the most comfortable and
substantial, they ordered him to sell it to The Twentyfour. You know
what that means. They appraised it at a high figure—$50,000.00 it was,
and paid him in paper money. There was nothing to do, and so we prepared
to move. Whenever they had come to look at the house my mother had
hidden me in a little cubby-hole on the landing between the second and
third floors, placing a pile of rubbish in front of me; but the day that
we were leaving to take a place on the banks of the Desplaines, where
Father thought that we might live without being disturbed, the new
commandant came unexpectedly and saw me.

“How old is the girl?” he asked my mother.

“Fifteen,” she replied, sullenly.

“You lie, you sow!” he cried angrily; “she is eighteen if she is a day.”

“Father was standing there beside us and when the commandant spoke as he
did to Mother I saw Father go very white and then, without a word, he
hurled himself upon the swine and before the Kash Guard who accompanied
him could prevent, Father had almost killed the commandant with his bare
hands.

“You know what happened—I do not need to tell you. They killed my
father before my eyes. Then the commandant gave my mother to one of his
Kash Guard; but she snatched his bayonet from his belt and ran it
through her heart before they could prevent. I tried to follow her
example; but they seized me.

“I was carried to my own bedroom on the second floor of my father’s
house and locked there. The commandant said that he would come and see
me in the evening and that everything would be all right with me. I knew
what he meant and I made up my mind that he would find me dead.

“My heart was breaking for the loss of my father and mother and yet the
desire to live was strong within me. I did not want to die—something
urged me to live, and in addition was the teaching of my father and
mother. They were both from Quaker stock and very religious. They
educated me to fear God and to do no wrong by thought or violence to
another, and yet I had seen my father attempt to kill a man and I had
seen my mother slay herself. My world was all upset. I was almost crazed
by grief and fear and uncertainty as to what was the right thing for me
to do.

“And then darkness came and I heard someone ascending the stairway. The
windows of the second story are too far from the ground for one to risk
a leap; but the ivy is old and strong. The commandant was not
sufficiently familiar with the place to have taken the ivy into
consideration, and before the footsteps reached my door I had swung out
of the window and clinging to the ivy made my way to the ground down the
rough and strong old stem.

“That was three days ago. I hid and wandered—I did not know in what
direction I went. Once an old woman took me in over night and fed me and
gave me food to carry for the next day. I think that I must have been
almost mad, for mostly the happenings of the past three days are only
indistinct and jumbled fragments of memory in my mind. And then the
hellhounds! Oh, how frightened I was! And then—you!”

I don’t know what there was about the way she said it; but it seemed to
me as though it meant a great deal more than she knew herself. Almost
like a prayer of thanksgiving, it was, that she had at last found a safe
haven of refuge—safe and permanent. Anyway I liked the idea.

And then Mollie came in and as I was leaving she asked me if I would
come that evening, and Juana cried: “Oh, yes, do!” and I said that I
would.

When I had finished delivering the goats’ milk I started for home, and
on the way I met old Samuels, the Jew. He made his living, and a scant
one it was, by tanning hides. He was a most excellent tanner; but as
nearly everyone else knew how to tan there were not many customers; but
some of the Kalkars used to bring him hides to tan. They knew nothing of
how to do any useful thing, for they were descended from a long line of
the most ignorant and illiterate people in the Moon, and the moment they
obtained a little power they would not even work at what small trades
their fathers once had learned, so that after a generation or two they
were able to live only off the labor of others. They created nothing,
they produced nothing, they became the most burdensome class of
parasites the world ever has endured.

The rich non-producers of olden times were a blessing to the world by
comparison with these, for the former at least had intelligence and
imagination—they could direct others and they could transmit to their
offspring the qualities of mind that are essential to any culture,
progress or happiness that the world ever may hope to attain.

So the Kalkars patronized Samuels for their tanned hides, and if they
had paid him for them the old Jew would have waxed rich; but they either
did not pay him at all or else mostly in paper money that did not even
burn well, as Samuels used to say.

“Good morning, Julian,” he called as we met. “I shall be needing some
hides soon, for the new commander of the Kash Guard has heard of old
Samuels and has sent for me and ordered five hides tanned the finest
that can be. Have you seen this Or-tis, Julian?” He lowered his voice.

I shook my head negatively.

“Heaven help us!” whispered the old man. “Heaven help us!”

“Is he as bad as that, Moses?” I asked.

The old man wrung his hands. “Bad times are ahead, my son,” he said.
“Old Samuels knows his kind. He is not lazy like the last one, and he is
more cruel and more lustful; but about the hides. I have not paid you
for the last—they paid me in paper money; but that I would not offer to
a friend in payment for a last year’s bird’s nest. Maybe that I shall
not be able to pay you for these new hides for a long time—it depends
upon how Or-tis pays me. Sometimes they are liberal—as they can afford
to be with the property of others; but if he is a half-breed, as I hear
he is, he will hate a Jew and I shall get nothing. However, if he is
pure Kalkar it may be different—the pure Kalkars do not hate a Jew more
than they hate other Earth Men, though there is one Jew who hates a
Kalkar.”

That night we had our first introduction to Or-tis. He came in person;
but I will tell how it all happened. After supper I went over to Jim’s.
Juana was standing in the little doorway as I came up the path. She
looked rested now and almost happy. The hunted expression had left her
eyes and she smiled as I approached. It was almost dusk, for the spring
evenings were still short; but the air was balmy and so we stood
outside, talking.

I recited the little gossip of our district that I had picked up during
my day’s work—The Twentyfour had raised the local tax on farm
products—Andrew Wright’s woman had given birth to twins, a boy and a
girl; but the girl had died (no need of comment here as most girl babies
die)—Soor had said that he would tax this district until we all died of
starvation (pleasant fellow, Soor)—one of the Kash Guard had taken
Nellie Levy—Hoffmeyer had said that next winter we would have to pay
more for coal—Dennis Corrigan had been sent to the mines for ten years
because he had been caught trading at night. It was all alike, this
gossip of ours—all sordid, or sad, or tragic; but then life was a
tragedy with us.

After awhile I took Juana over to our house to see my mother. She liked
the house very much. My father’s father built it with his own hands. It
is constructed of stone taken from the ruins of the old city—stone and
brick. Father says that he thinks the bricks are from an old pavement as
we still see patches of these ancient bricks in various localities.
Nearly all our houses are of this construction, for timber is scarce.
The foundation and the walls above the ground for about three feet are
of rough stones of various sizes and above this are the bricks. The
stones are laid so that some project farther than others and the effect
is odd and rather nice. The eaves are low and overhanging and the roof
is thatched. It is a nice house and Mother keeps it scrupulously clean
and meticulously neat within.

We had been talking for perhaps an hour, sitting in our living
room—Father, Mother, Juana, and I—when the door was suddenly thrust
open without warning and we looked up to see a man in the uniform of a
Kash Guard confronting us. Behind him were others. We all rose and stood
in silence. Two entered and took posts on either side of the doorway and
then a third came in—a tall, dark man in the uniform of a commander and
we knew at once that it was Or-tis. At his heels were six more.

Or-tis looked at each of us and then singling out Father he said: “You
are Brother Julian 8th.”

Father nodded. Or-tis eyed him for a moment and then his gaze wandered
to Mother and Juana and I saw a new expression lessen the fierce scowl
that had clouded his face from the moment of his entry. He was a large
man, his nose was thin and rather fine, his eyes cold, gray and
piercing. He was very different from the fat swine that had preceded
him—very different and more dangerous; even I could see that. I could
see a thin, cruel upper lip and a full and sensuous lower. If the other
had been a pig, this one was a wolf and he had the nervous restlessness
of the wolf—and the vitality to carry out any wolfish designs his
crafty brain might entertain.

“So you are Brother Julian 8th!” he repeated. “I do not have good
reports of you. I have come for two reasons tonight. One is to warn you
that the Kash Guard is commanded by a different sort of man from him
whom I relieved. I will stand no trifling and no treason. There must be
unquestioned loyalty to the Jemadar at Washington—every national and
local law will be enforced. Trouble makers and traitors will get short
shift. A manifesto will be read in each market place Saturday—a
manifesto that I have just received from Washington. Our great Jemadar
has conferred greater powers upon the commanders of the Kash Guard. You
will come to me with all your grievances. Where justice miscarries I
shall be the court of last resort. The judgment of any court may be
appealed to me.

“On the other hand, let wrongdoers beware, as under the new law any
cause may be tried before a summary military court over which the
commander of the Kash Guard must preside.

“And,” continued Or-tis, “I have come for another reason—a reason that
looks bad for you, Brother Julian; but we shall see what we shall see,”
and turning to the men behind him he issued a curt command: “Search the
place!” That was all; but I saw, in memory, another man standing in this
same living room—a man from beneath whose coat fell an empty sack when
he raised an arm.

For an hour they searched that little three room house. For an hour they
tumbled our few belongings over and over; but mostly they searched the
living room and especially about the fireplace did they hunt for a
hidden nook. A dozen times my heart stood still as I saw them feeling of
the stones above the mantel.

We all knew what they sought—all but Juana—and we knew what it would
mean if they found it. Death for Father and for me, too, perhaps, and
worse for Mother and the girl. And to think that Johansen had done this
awful thing to curry favor for himself with the new commander! I knew it
was he—I knew it as surely as though Or-tis had told me. To curry favor
with the commander! I thought that that was the reason then. God, had I
but known his real reason!

Well, they searched for an hour and found nothing; but I knew that
Or-tis was not satisfied that the thing he sought was not there, and
toward the end of the search I could see that he was losing patience. He
took direct charge at last and then when they had no better success
under his direction he became very angry.

“Yankee swine!” he cried suddenly, turning upon Father; “you will find
that you cannot fool a descendant of the great Jemadar Orthis as you
have fooled the others—not for long. I have a nose for traitors—I can
smell a Yank farther than most men can see one. Take a warning, take a
warning to your kind—it will be death or the mines for every traitor in
the teivos.”

He stood then, in silence for a moment, glaring at Father and then his
gaze moved to Juana, where she stood just behind my shoulder at the far
side of the room.

“Who are you, girl?” he demanded. “Where do you live and what do you
that adds to the prosperity of the community?”

“Adds to the prosperity of the community!” It was a phrase often on
their lips, and it was always directed at us—a meaningless phrase, as
there was no prosperity. We supported the Kalkars and that was their
idea of prosperity. I suppose ours was to get barely sufficient to
sustain life and strength to enable us to continue slaving for them.

“I live with Mollie Sheehan,” replied Juana, “and help her care for the
chickens and the little pigs, also I help with the house work.”

“Mm-m,” ejaculated Or-tis; “house work! That is good—I shall be needing
someone to keep my quarters tidy. How about it, my girl? It will be easy
work and I will pay you well—no pigs or chickens to slave for. Eh?”

“But I love the little pigs and chickens, I like to care for them,” she
pleaded, “and I am happy with Mollie—I do not wish to change.”

“Do not wish to change, eh?” he mimicked her. She had drawn farther
behind me now, as though for protection, and closer—I could feel her
body touching mine. “Mollie can doubtless take care of her own pigs and
chickens without help. If she has so many she cannot do it alone then
she has too many, and we will see why it is that she is more prosperous
than the rest of us—probably she should pay a larger income tax—we
shall see.”

“Oh, no!” cried Juana, frightened now on Mollie’s account; “please, she
has only a few, scarcely enough that she and her man may live after the
taxes are paid.”

“Then she does not need you to help her,” said Or-tis with finality, a
nasty sneer upon his lip. “You will come and work for me, girl!”

And then Juana surprised me—she surprised us all, and particularly
Or-tis. Before, she had been rather pleading and seemingly a little
frightened; but now she drew herself to her full height and with her
chin in air looked Or-tis straight in the eye.

“I will not come,” she said, haughtily; “I do not wish to.” That was
all.

Or-tis looked surprised. His soldiers, shocked. For a moment no one
spoke. I glanced at Mother. She was not trembling as I had expected. Her
head was up, too, and she was openly looking her scorn of the man.
Father stood as he usually did before them, with his head bowed; but I
saw that he was watching Or-tis out of the corners of his eyes and that
his fingers were moving as might the fingers of hands fixed upon a hated
throat.

“You will come,” said Or-tis, a little red in the face now at this
defiance. “There are ways,” and he looked straight at me—and then he
turned upon his heel and followed by his Kash Guard left the house.