X
                              THE BUTCHER

We went on then, Father and I filled with grief and bitterness and
hatred even greater than we had known before. We marched toward the
market place of our district, and on the way we stopped at Jim’s and he
joined us. Mollie wept when she heard what had befallen Mother and
Juana, but presently she controlled herself and urged us on and Jim with
us, though Jim needed no urging. She kissed him good-bye with tears and
pride mingled in her eyes, and all he said was: “Good-bye, girl, keep
your knife with you always.”

And so we rode away with Mollie’s “May the Saints be with you” in our
ears. Once again we stopped at our abandoned goat pens, and there we dug
up the rifle, belt and ammunition of the soldier Father had slain years
before. These we gave to Jim.

Before we reached the market place our force commenced to dwindle
again—most of them could not brave the terrors of the Kash Guard upon
which they had been fed in whispered story and in actual experience
since infancy. I do not say that these men were cowards—I do not
believe that they were cowards, and yet they acted like cowards. It may
be that a lifetime of training had taught them so thoroughly to flee the
Kash Guard that now no amount of urging could make them face it—the
terror had become instinctive as is man’s natural revulsion for snakes.
They could not face the Kash Guard any more than some men can touch a
rattler, even though it may be dead.

It was market day and the place was crowded. I had divided my force so
that we marched in from two directions in wide fronts, about five
hundred men in each party, and surrounded the market place. As there
were only a few men from our district among us I had given orders that
there was to be no killing other than that of Kash Guards until we who
knew the population could pick out the right men.

When the nearest people first saw us they did not know what to make of
it, so complete was the surprise. Never in their lives had they seen men
of their own class armed and there were a hundred of us mounted. Across
the plaza a handful of Kash Guard were lolling in front of Hoffmeyer’s
office. They saw my party first, as the other was coming up from behind
them, and they mounted and came toward us. At the same moment I drew The
Flag from my breast and waving it above my head, urged Red Lightning
forward, shouting, as I rode: “Death to the Kash Guard! Death to the
Kalkars!”

And then, of a sudden, the Kash Guard seemed to realize that they were
confronted by an actual force of armed men and their true color became
apparent—all yellow. They turned to flee, only to see another force
behind them. The people had now caught the idea and the spirit of our
purpose and they flocked around us, shouting, screaming, laughing,
crying. “Death to the Kash Guard!” “Death to the Kalkars!” “The Flag!” I
heard more than once, and “Old Glory!” from some who, like myself, had
not been permitted to forget. A dozen men rushed to my side, and
grasping the streaming banner pressed it to their lips while tears
coursed down their cheeks. “The Flag! The Flag!” they cried. “The Flag
of our fathers!”

It was then, before a shot had been fired, that one of the Kash Guard
rode toward me with a white cloth above his head. I recognized him
immediately as the youth who had brought the cruel order to Mother and
who had shown sorrow for the acts of his superiors.

“Do not kill us,” he said, “and we will join with you. Many of the Kash
Guard at the barracks will join, too.”

And so the dozen soldiers in the market place joined us, and a woman ran
from her house carrying the head of a man stuck upon a short pole and
she screamed forth her hatred against the Kalkars—the hatred that was
the common bond between us all. As she came closer I saw that it was
Pthav’s woman and the head upon the short pole was the head of Pthav.
That was the beginning—that was the little spark that was needed. Like
maniacs, laughing horribly, the people charged the houses of the Kalkars
and dragged them forth to death.

Above the shrieking and the groans and the din could be heard shouts for
The Flag and the names of loved ones who were being avenged. More than
once I heard the name of Samuels the Jew—never was a man more
thoroughly avenged than he that day.

Dennis Corrigan was with us, freed from the mines, and Betty Worth, his
woman, found him there, his arms red to the elbows with the blood of our
oppressors. She had never thought to see him alive, and when she heard
his story, and of how they had escaped she ran to me and nearly pulled
me from Red Lightning’s back, trying to hug and kiss me.

It was she who started the people shouting for me until a mad, swirling
mob of joy-crazed people surrounded me. I tried to quiet them, for I
knew that this was no way in which to forward our cause and finally I
succeeded in winning a partial silence and then I told them that this
madness must cease, that we had not yet succeeded, that we had won only
a single small district and that we must go forward quietly and in
accordance with a sensible plan if we were to be victorious.

“Remember,” I admonished them, “that there are still thousands of armed
men in the city and that we must overthrow them all, and then there are
other thousands that The Twentyfour will throw in upon us, for they will
not surrender this territory until they are hopelessly defeated from
here to Washington—and that will require months and maybe years.”

They quieted down a little then, and we formed plans for marching
immediately upon the barracks that we might take the Kash Guard by
surprise. It was about this time that Father found Soor and killed him.

“I told you,” said Father, just before he ran a bayonet through the tax
collector, “that some day I would have my little joke, and this is the
day.”

Then a man dragged Hoffmeyer from some hiding place and the people
literally tore him to pieces and that started the pandemonium all over
again. There were cries of “On to the barracks!” and “Kill the Kash
Guard!” followed by a concerted movement toward the lake front. On the
way our numbers were increased by volunteers from every house—either
fighting men and women from the houses of our class or bloody heads from
the houses of the Kalkars, for we carried them all with us, waving above
us upon the ends of poles, and at the head of all I rode with Old Glory,
now waving from a tall staff.

I tried to maintain some semblance of order; but it was impossible and
so we streamed along, screaming and killing, laughing and crying, each
as the mood claimed him. The women seemed the maddest, possibly because
they had suffered most, and Pthav’s woman led them. I saw others there
with one hand clutching a suckling baby to a bare breast while the other
held aloft the dripping head of a Kalkar, an informer, or a spy. One
could not blame them who knew the lives of terror and hopelessness they
had led—they and their mothers before them.

We had just crossed the new bridge over the river into the heart of the
great, ruined city when the Kash Guard fell upon us from ambush with
their full strength. They were poorly disciplined; but they were armed,
while we were not disciplined at all nor scarcely armed. We were nothing
but an angry mob into which they poured volley after volley at close
range. Men, women and babies went down and many turned and fled; but
there were others who rushed forward and grappled hand to hand with the
Kash Guard, tearing their rifles from them. We who were mounted rode
among them. I could not carry The Flag and fight, so I took it from the
staff and replaced it inside my shirt and then I clubbed my rifle and
guiding Red Lightning with my knees I drove into them.

God of our Fathers, but it was a pretty fight. If I had known that I was
to die the next minute I would have died gladly for the joy I had in
those few minutes. Down they went before me, to right and to left,
reeling from their saddles with crushed skulls and broken bodies, for
wherever I hit them made no difference in the result—they died if they
came within reach of my rifle, which was soon only a bent and twisted
tube of bloody metal.

And so I rode completely through them with a handful of men behind me.
We turned then to ride back over the crumbling ruins that were in this
spot only mounds of debris, and from the elevation of one of these
hillocks of the dead past, I saw the battle down by the river and a
great lump came into my throat. It was all over—all but the bloody
massacre. My poor mob had turned at last to flee, they were jammed and
stuck upon the narrow bridge and the Kash Guard were firing volleys into
that wedged mass of human flesh. Hundreds were leaping into the river
only to be shot from the banks by the soldiers.

Twenty-five mounted men surrounded me—all that was left of my fighting
force—and at least two thousand Kash Guards lay between us and the
river. Even could we have fought our way back we could have done nothing
to save the day or our own people. We were doomed to die; but we decided
to inflict more punishment before we died.

I had in mind Juana in the clutches of Or-tis—not once had the
frightful thought left my consciousness—and so I told them that I would
ride to headquarters and search for her and they said that they would
ride with me and that we would slay whom we could before the soldiers
returned.

Our dream had vanished, our hopes were dead. In silence we rode through
the streets toward the barracks. The Kash Guard had not come over to our
side as we had hoped—possibly they would have come had we had some
measure of success in the city; but there could be no success against
armed troops for an undisciplined mob of men, women and children.

I realized too late that we had not planned sufficiently, yet we might
have won had not someone escaped and ridden ahead to notify the Kash
Guard. Could we have taken them by surprise in the barracks the outcome
might have been what it had been in the market places through which we
had passed. I had realized our weakness and the fact that if we took
time to plan and arrange, some spy or informer would have divulged all
to the authorities long before we could have put our plans into
execution. Really, there had been no other way than to trust to a
surprise attack and the impetuosity of our first blow.

I looked about among my followers as we rode along. Jim was there, but
not Father—I never saw him again. He probably fell in the battle at the
new bridge. Orrin Colby, blacksmith and preacher, rode at my side
covered with blood—his own and Kash Guard. Dennis Corrigan was there,
too.

We rode right into the barrack yard, for with their lack of discipline
and military efficiency they had sent their whole force against us with
the exception of a few men who remained to guard the prisoners and a
handful at headquarters building. The latter we overcame with scarce a
struggle and from one whom I took prisoner I learned where the sleeping
quarters of Or-tis were located.

Telling my men that our work was done I ordered them to scatter and
escape as best they might; but they said that they would remain with me.
I told them that the business I was on was such that I must handle it
alone and asked them to go and free the prisoners while I searched for
Juana. They said that they would wait for me outside and so we parted.

Or-tis’ quarters were on the second floor of the building in the east
wing and I had no difficulty in finding them. As I approached the door I
heard the sound of voices raised in anger within and of rapid movement
as though someone was running hither and thither across the floor. I
recognized Or-tis’ voice—he was swearing foully, and then I heard a
woman’s scream and I knew that it was Juana.

I tried the door and found it locked. It was a massive door, such as the
ancients built in their great public buildings, such as this had
originally been, and I doubted my ability to force it. I was mad with
apprehension and lust for revenge, and if maniacs gain tenfold in
strength when the madness is upon them, I must have been a maniac that
moment, for when, after stepping back a few feet, I hurled myself
against the door the shot bolt tore through the splintering frame and
the barrier swung in upon its hinges with a loud bang.

Before me, in the center of the room, stood Or-tis with Juana in his
clutches. He had her partially upon a table and with one hairy hand he
was choking her. He looked up at the noise of my sudden entry, and when
he saw me he went white and dropped Juana, at the same time whipping a
pistol from its holster at his side. Juana saw me too, and springing for
his arm dragged it down as he pulled the trigger, so that the bullet
went harmlessly into the floor.

Before he could shake her off I was upon him and had wrenched the weapon
from his grasp. I held him in one hand as one might a little child—he
was utterly helpless in my grip—and I asked Juana if he had wronged
her.

“Not yet,” she said, “he just came in after sending the Kash Guard away.
Something has happened. There is going to be a battle; but he sneaked
back to the safety of his quarters,” and then she seemed to notice for
the first time that I was covered with blood. “There has been a battle!”
she cried, “and you have been in it.”

I told her that I had and that I would tell her about it after I had
finished Or-tis. He commenced to plead and then to whimper. He promised
me freedom and immunity from punishment and persecution if I would let
him live. He promised never to bother Juana again and to give us his
protection and assistance. He would have promised me the Sun and the
Moon and all the little stars had he thought I wished them; but I wished
only one thing just then and I told him so—to see him die.

“Had you wronged her,” I said, “you would have died a slow and terrible
death; but I came in time to save her and so you are saved that
suffering.”

When he realized that nothing could save him he began to weep and his
knees shook so that he could not stand, and I had to hold him from the
floor with one hand and with my other clenched I dealt him a single
terrific blow between the eyes—a blow that broke his neck and crushed
his skull—then I dropped him to the floor and took Juana in my arms.

Quickly, as we walked toward the entrance of the building, I told her of
all that had transpired since we parted and that now she would be left
alone in the world for awhile, until I could join her. I told her where
to go and await me in a forgotten spot I had discovered upon the banks
of the old canal on my journey to the mines. She cried and clung to me,
begging to remain with me; but I knew it could not be, for already I
could hear fighting in the yard below. We would be fortunate indeed if
one of us escaped. At last she promised on condition that I would join
her immediately, which, of course, I had intended doing as soon as I had
the chance.

Red Lightning stood where I had left him before the door. A company of
Kash Guard, evidently returning from the battle, were engaged with my
little band that was slowly falling back toward the headquarters
building. There was no time to be lost if Juana was to escape. I lifted
her to Red Lightning’s back from where she stooped and threw her dear
arms about my neck, covering my lips with kisses.

“Come back to me soon,” she begged, “I need you so—and it will not be
long before there will be another to need you too.”

I pressed her close to my breast. “And if I do not come back,” I said,
“take this and give it to my son to guard as his fathers before him
have,” and I placed The Flag in her hands.

The bullets were singing around us and I made her go, watching her as
the noble horse raced swiftly across the parade and disappeared among
the ruins to the west. Then I turned to the fighting to find but ten men
left to me. Orrin Colby was dead and Dennis Corrigan. Jim was left and
nine others. We fought as best we could; but we were cornered now, for
other guards were streaming onto the parade from other directions and
our ammunition was expended.

They rushed us then—twenty to one—and though we did the best we could,
they overwhelmed us. Lucky Jim was killed instantly; but I was only
stunned by a blow upon the head.

That night they tried me before a court-martial and tortured me in an
effort to make me divulge the names of my accomplices; but there were
none left alive that I knew of, even had I wished to betray them. As it
was, I just refused to speak. I never spoke again after bidding Juana
good-bye, other than the few words of encouragement that passed between
those of us who remained fighting to the last.

Early the next morning I was led forth to The Butcher.

I recall every detail up to the moment the knife touched my
throat—there was a slight stinging sensation followed instantly
by—oblivion.