II
                                 EXODUS

April arrived and with it the clans, coming at my bidding. Soon there
would be little danger of heavy rains in the coast valleys. To have been
caught there in a week of rain with an army would have been fatal, for
the mud is deep and sticky and our horses would have mired and the
Kalkars fallen upon us and destroyed us. They greatly outnumber us, and
so our only hope must lie in our mobility. We realize that we are
reducing this by taking along our women and our flocks, but we believe
that so desperate will be our straits that we must conquer, since the
only alternative to victory must be death—death for us and worse for
our women and children.

The clans have been gathering for two days and all are here—some fifty
thousand souls, and of horses, cattle and sheep there must be a thousand
thousand, for we are rich in live stock. In the past two months, at my
orders, all our swine have been slaughtered and smoked, for we could not
be hampered by them on the long desert march, even if they could have
survived it.

There is water in the desert this time of year and some feed, but it
will be a hard, a terrible march. We shall lose a great deal of our
stock, one in ten, perhaps; The Wolf thinks it may be as high as five in
ten. We shall start tomorrow an hour before sunset, making a short march
of about ten miles to a place where there is a spring along the trail
the ancients used. It is strange to see all across the desert evidence
of the great work they accomplished. After five hundred years the
location of their well graded trail, with its wide, sweeping curves, is
plainly discernible. It is a narrow trail, but there are signs of
another, much wider, that we discover occasionally. It follows the
general line of the other, crossing it and recrossing it, without any
apparent reason, time and time again. It is almost obliterated by
drifting sand, or washed away by the rains of ages. Only where it is of
a material like stone has it endured. The pains those ancients took with
things! The time and men and effort they expended! And for what? They
have disappeared and their works with them.

As we rode that first night Rain Cloud rode often at my side and, as
usual, he was gazing at the stars.

“There is so much that we do not know,” sighed Rain Cloud; “yet all that
we can spare the time for is thoughts of fighting. I shall be glad when
we have chased the last of the Kalkars into the sea, so that some of us
may sit down in peace and think.”

“It is handed down to us that the ancients prided themselves upon their
knowledge, but what did it profit them? I think we are happier. They
must have had to work all their lives to do the things they did and to
know all the things they knew, yet they could eat no more, or sleep no
more, or drink no more in a lifetime than can we. And now they are gone
forever from the Earth and all their works with them and all their
knowledge is lost.”

“And presently we will be gone,” said Rain Cloud.

“And we will have left as much as they to benefit those who follow,” I
replied.

“Perhaps you are right, Red Hawk,” said Rain Cloud; “yet I cannot help
wanting to know more than I do know.”

The second march was also made at night and was a little longer than the
first. We had a good moon and the desert night was bright. The third
march was about twenty-five miles and the fourth a short one, only ten
miles; and there we left the trail of the ancients and continued in a
southwesterly direction to a trail that followed a series of springs
that gave us short marches the balance of the way to a lake called Bear
by our slaves. The way, of course, was all well known to us, and so we
knew just what was ahead and dreaded the fifth march, which was a
terrible one, by far the worst of them all. It lay across a rough and
broken area of desert and crossed a range of barren mountains—for
forty-five miles it wound its parched way from water hole to water hole.
For horsemen alone it would have been but a hard march, but with cattle
and sheep to herd across that waterless waste, it became a terrific
undertaking. Every beast that was strong enough carried hay, oats or
barley in sacks, for we could not depend entirely upon the sparse feed
of the desert for so huge a caravan; but water we could not carry in
sufficient quantities for the stock, transporting enough, however, on
the longer marches to insure a supply for the women and all children
under sixteen, and on the short marches enough for nursing mothers and
children under ten.

We rested all day before the fifth march began, setting forth about
three hours before sundown. From fifty camps in fifty parallel lines we
started. Every man, woman and child was mounted. The women carried all
children under five, usually seated astride a blanket on the horse’s
rump behind the mother. The rest rode alone. The bulk of the warriors
and all the women and children set out ahead of the herds, which
followed slowly behind, each bunch securely hemmed in by outriders and
followed by a rearguard of warriors.

A hundred men on swift horses rode at the head of the column, and as the
night wore on, gradually increased their lead until they were out of
sight of the remainder of the caravan. Their duty was to reach the camp
site ahead of the others and fill the water tanks that slaves had been
preparing for the past two months. We took but few slaves with us, only
a few personal attendants for the women and such others as did not wish
to be separated from their masters and had chosen to accompany us. For
the most part the slaves preferred to remain in their own country and we
were willing to let them, since it made fewer mouths to feed upon the
long journey and we knew that in the Kalkar country we should find
plenty to take their places, as we would take those from the Kalkars we
defeated.

The long, tiresome march was over at last. The years of thought that I
had given it, the two months of preparation that had immediately
preceded it, the splendid condition of all our stock, the training and
the temper of my people bore profitable fruit and we came through
without the loss of a man, woman or child, and with the loss of less
than two in a hundred of our herds and flocks. The mountain crossing on
that memorable fifth march took the heaviest toll, fully ten thousand
head, mostly lambs and calves, falling by the trail side.

With two days out for rest, we came, at the end of the tenth march and
the twelfth day, to the lake called Bear and into a rich mountain
country, lush with feed and game. Here deer and wild goats and wild
sheep abounded, with rabbit and quail and wild chicken and the beautiful
wild cattle that the legends of our slaves say are descended from the
domestic stock of the ancients.

It was not my plan to rest here longer than was necessary to fully
restore the strength and spirits of the stock. Our horses were not jaded
as we had had sufficient to change often. In fact we warriors had not
ridden our war-horses once upon the journey. Red Lightning had trotted
into the last camp fat and sleek.

To have remained here long would have been to have apprised the enemy of
our plans, for the Kalkars and their slaves hunt in these mountains
which adjoin their land, and should a single hunter see this vast
concourse of Julians, our coming would have been known throughout the
valleys in a single day and our purpose guessed by all.

So, after a day of rest, I sent The Wolf and a thousand warriors
westward to the main pass of the ancients with orders to make it appear
that we were attempting to enter the valley there in force. For three
days he would persist in this false advance and in that time I felt that
I should have drawn all the Kalkar fighting men from the valley lying
southwest of the lake of the Bear. My lookouts were posted upon every
eminence that gave view of the valleys and the trails between the main
pass of the ancients and that through which we should pour down from the
Bear out into the fields and groves of the Kalkars.

The third day was spent in preparation. The last of the arrows were
finished and distributed. We looked to our saddle leathers and our
bridles. We sharpened our swords and knives once more and put keener
points upon our lances. Our women mixed the war paint and packed our
belongings again for another march. The herds were gathered in and held
in close, compact bunches. Riders reported to me at intervals from the
various lookouts and from down the trail to the edge of the Kalkar
farms. No enemy had seen us, but that they had seen The Wolf and his
warriors we had the most reassuring evidence in the reports from our
outposts that every trail from south and west was streaming with Kalkar
warriors converging upon the pass of the ancients.[1]

-----

[1] Probably Cajon Pass.

-----

During the third day we moved leisurely down the mountain trails and as
night fell our vanguard of a thousand warriors debouched into the groves
of the Kalkars. Leaving four thousand warriors, mostly youths, to guard
the women, the children, the flocks and the herds I set out rapidly in a
northwesterly direction toward the pass of the ancients at the head of
full twenty thousand warriors.

Our war-horses we had led all day as we came slowly out of the mountains
riding other animals, and not until we were ready to start upon the
twenty-five mile march to the pass of the ancients did we saddle and
mount the fleet beasts upon which the fate of the Julians might rest
this night. In consequence our horses were fresh from a two weeks’ rest.
Three hours of comparatively easy riding should see us upon the flanks
of the enemy.

The Rock, a brave and seasoned warrior, I had left behind to guard the
women, the children and the stock. The Rattlesnake, with five thousand
warriors, bore along a more westerly trail, after fifteen miles had been
covered, that he might fall upon the rear of the enemy from one point
while I fell upon them from another, and at the same time place himself
between their main body, lying at the foot of the pass, and the source
of their supplies and reinforcements.

With The Wolf, the mountains and the desert upon one side and The
Rattlesnake and I blocking them upon the south and the southeast, the
position of the Kalkars appeared to me to be hopeless.

Toward midnight I called a halt to await the report of scouts who had
preceded us and it was not long before they commenced to come in. From
them I learned that the camp fires of the Kalkars were visible from an
eminence less than a mile ahead. I gave the signal to advance. Slowly
the great mass of warriors moved forward. The trail dipped down into a
little valley and then wound upward to the crest of a low ridge, where a
few minutes later I brought Red Lightning to a halt. Before me spread a
broad valley bathed in the soft light of moon and stars. Dark masses in
the nearer foreground I recognized as orange groves even without the
added evidence of the sweet aroma of their blossoms that was heavy on
the still night air. Beyond, to the northwest, a great area was dotted
with the glowing embers of a thousand dying camp fires. I filled my
lungs with the cool, sweet air; I felt my nerves tingle; a wave of
exaltation surged through me; Red Lightning trembled beneath me. After
nearly four hundred years a Julian stood at last, upon the threshold of
complete revenge!