V
                                THE SEA

It seemed strange indeed to me that I stood conversing thus amicably
with an Or-tis. I should have been at his throat, but there was
something about him that disarmed me, and after his speech I felt, I am
almost ashamed to say, something of friendliness for him. He was an
American after all, and he hated the common enemy. Was he responsible
for the mad act of an ancestor dead now almost four hundred years? But
the hate that was almost a part of my being would not down entirely—he
was still an Or-tis. I told him as much. He shrugged his shoulders.

“I do not know that I can blame you,” he said; “but what matters it?
Tomorrow we shall both be dead. Let us at least call a truce until
then.”

He was a pleasant-faced young fellow, two or three years my senior,
perhaps, with a winning way that disarmed malice. It would have been
very hard to have hated this Or-tis.

“Agreed!” I said, and held out my hand. He took it and then he laughed.

“Thirty-four ancestors would turn over in their graves if they could see
this,” he cried.

We talked there by the opening for a long time, while in the trail below
us constant streams of Kalkars moved steadily to the battle front.
Faintly, from a great distance, came the booming of the drums.

“You beat them badly yesterday,” he said. “They are filled with terror.”

“We will beat them again today and tomorrow and the next day until we
have driven them into the sea,” I said.

“How many warriors have you?” he asked.

“There were full twenty-five thousand when we rode out of the desert,” I
replied proudly.

He shook his head dubiously. “They must have ten, twenty times
twenty-five thousand,” he told me.

“Even though they have forty times twenty-five thousand we shall
prevail,” I insisted.

“Perhaps you will, for you are better fighters; but they have so many
youths growing into the warrior class every day. It will take years to
wear them down. They breed like rabbits. Their women are married before
they are fifteen, as a rule. If they have no child at twenty they are
held up to scorn, and if they are still childless at thirty they are
killed, and unless they are mighty good workers they are killed at fifty
anyhow—their usefulness to the State is over.”

Night came on. The Kalkars brought us no food or water. It became very
dark. In the trail below and in some of the surrounding tents flares
gave a weird, flickering light. The sky was overcast with light clouds.
The Kalkars in the avenue beyond our doorway dozed. I touched the Or-tis
upon the shoulder where he lay stretched beside me on the hard floor.

“What is it?” he whispered.

“I am going,” I said. “Do you wish to come?”

He sat up. “How are you going?” he demanded, still in a low whisper.

“I do not know, nor how far I shall go; but I am going, if only far
enough to cheat The Butcher.”

He laughed. “Good! I will go with you.”

It had taken me a long time to overcome the prejudices of heredity, and
I had thought long before I could bring myself to ask an Or-tis to share
with me this attempt to escape; but now it was done. I hoped I would not
regret it.

I arose and moved cautiously toward the doorway. A wick, burning from
the nozzle of a clay vessel filled with oil, gave forth a sickly light.
It shone upon two hulking Kalkars nodding against the wall as they sat
upon the stone floor of the avenue. My knife, of course, had been taken
from me and I was unarmed; but here was a sword within my reach and
another for the Or-tis. The hilt of one protruded from beneath the cloak
of the nearer Kalkar. My hand, reaching forth, was almost upon it when
he moved. I could not wait to learn if he was awaking or but moving in
his sleep. I lunged for the hilt, grasped it and the fellow was awake.
At the same instant the Or-tis sprang upon the other.

He whom I had attacked lumbered to his feet, clawing at the hand that
had already half drawn his sword from its scabbard, and at the same time
he set up a terrific yelling. I struck him on the jaw with my clenched
fist. I struck him as hard as I could strike, as he loomed above me his
full eight feet. The Or-tis was having a bad time with his man, who had
seized him by the throat and was trying to draw a knife to finish him.
The knife must have become stuck in its scabbard for a moment, or his
long, red cloak was in the way. I do not know. I saw only a flash of it
from the corner of my eye as my man stiffened and then sank to the
floor. Then I wheeled upon the other, a naked blade in my hand. He threw
the Or-tis aside when he saw me and whipped out his own sword, but he
was too slow. As I ran my point into his heart I heard the sound of
running footsteps ascending the stairway and the shouts of men. I handed
the sword I carried to the Or-tis and snatched the other from the fellow
I had just finished. Then I kicked the puny flare as far as I could kick
it and called to the Or-tis to follow me. The light went out and
together we ran along the dark avenue toward the stairway, up which we
could hear the warriors coming in response to the cries of our late
antagonists.

We reached the head of the stairs but a moment before the Kalkars
appeared. There were three of them, and one carried a weak, smoking
flare that did little but cast large, grotesque, dancing shadows upon
wall and stair and reveal our targets to us without revealing us to
them.

“Take the last one,” I whispered to the Or-tis.

We leaned over the railing and as he smote the head of the last of the
three I finished the second. The first, carrying the flare, turned to
find himself facing two swords. He gave a shriek and started down the
avenue. That would not do. If he had kept still we might have let him
live, for we were in a hurry; but he did not keep still and so we
pursued him. He reminded me of a comet as he fled through the dark with
his tail of light, only it was such a little tail. However, he was a
little comet. He was a fast comet, though, and we could not catch him
until the end of the avenue brought him to bay, then, in turning, he
slipped and fell. I was upon him in the same instant, but some fancy
stayed my blade when I might have run it through him. Instead I seized
him, before he could recover himself, and lifting him from the floor I
hurled him through the aperture at the end of the avenue. He still clung
to his lamp and as I leaned out above him he appeared a comet indeed,
though he was quickly extinguished in the courtyard far below.

The Or-tis chuckled at my elbow. “The stupid clod!” he ejaculated. “He
clung to that flare even to death, when, had he thrown it away and
dodged into one of these many chambers he could have eluded us and still
lived.”

“Perhaps he needed it to light his way to Hell,” I suggested.

“They need no help in that direction,” the Or-tis assured me, “for they
will all get there, if there be such a place.”

We retraced our steps to the stairway again, but once more we heard men
ascending. The Or-tis plucked me by the sleeve. “Come,” he whispered;
“it is futile to attempt escape in this direction now that the guard is
aroused. I am familiar with this place. I have been here many times. If
we have the nerve we may yet escape. Will you follow me?”

“Certainly,” I replied.

The corpses of two of our recent antagonists lay at our feet at the head
of the stairs, where we stood. Or-tis stooped and snatched their cloaks
and bonnets from them. “We shall need these if we reach the
ground—alive,” he said. “Follow me closely.”

He turned and continued along the corridor, presently entering a chamber
at the left. Behind us we heard the Kalkars ascending the stairs. They
were calling to their fellows above, from whom they would never receive
a reply; but they were evidently coming slowly, for which we were both
thankful.

Or-tis crossed the chamber to an aperture in the wall. “Below is the
courtyard,” he said. “It is a long way down. These walls are laid in
uneven courses. An agile man might make his way to the bottom without
falling. Shall we try it? We can go down close to these apertures and
thus rest often, if we wish.”

“You go on one side and I will go on the other,” I told him.

He rolled the two cloaks and the bonnets into a bundle and dropped them
into the dark void beneath, then we slid over the edge of the aperture.
Clinging with my hands I found a foothold and then another below the
first. The ledges were about half the width of my hand. Some of them
were rounded by time and the weather. These did not afford a very good
hold. However, I reached the aperture below without mishap and there, I
am free to confess, I was glad to pause for a moment, as I was panting
as though I had run a mile.

Or-tis came down in safety, too. “The Butcher appears less terrible,” he
said.

I laughed. “He would have it over quicker,” I replied.

The next stage we descended two floors before we halted. I like to have
slipped and fallen twice in that distance. I was wet with sweat as I
took a seat beside my companion. I do not like to recall that adventure.
It sends the shivers through me always, even now; but at last it was
over—we reached the bottom together and donned the cloaks and the
bonnets of the Kalkars. The swords, for which we had no scabbards, we
slipped through our own belts, the cloaks hiding the fact that they were
scabbardless.

The smell of horses was strong in our nostrils as we crept forward
toward a doorway. All was darkness within as we groped forward to find
that we were in a small chamber with a door at the opposite side. Nearly
all the doors of the ancients have been destroyed, either by the fires
that have gutted most of the buildings, by decay, or by the Kalkars that
have used them for fuel; but there are some left—they are the metal
doors, and this was one. I pushed it open enough to see if there was a
light beyond. There was. It was in the great chamber on the first floor
where the horses were tethered. It was not a brilliant light, but a sad,
flickering light. Even the lights of the Kalkars are grimy and unclean.
It cast a pallid luminance beneath it; elsewhere were heavy shadows. The
horses, when they moved, cast giant shadows upon the walls and floor and
upon the great, polished stone columns.

A guard loafed before the door that led to the trail in front of the
tent. It was composed of five or six men. I suppose there were others in
some nearby chamber. The doorway through which we peered was in shadow.
I pushed it open far enough to admit our bodies and we slipped through.
In an instant we were hidden from the sight of the guard, among the
horses. Some of them moved restlessly as we approached them. If I could
but find Red Lightning! I had searched along one line almost the full
length of the chamber and had started along a second when I heard a low
nicker close by. It was he! Love of The Flag! It was like finding my own
brother.

In the slovenly manner of the Kalkars, the saddles and bridles lay in
the dirt in the aisle behind the horses. Fortunately I found my own,
more easily, of course, because it is unlike those of the Kalkars, and
while I slipped them quietly upon Red Lightning, the Or-tis, selecting a
mount haphazard, was saddling and bridling it.

After a whispered consultation, we led our horses to the rear of the
room and mounted among the shadows, unobserved by the guard. Then we
rode out from behind the picket lines and moved slowly toward the
entrance, talking and laughing in what we hoped might appear an
unconcerned manner, the Or-tis riding on the side nearer the guard and a
little in advance, that Red Lightning might be hidden from them, for we
thought that they might recognize him more quickly than they would us.

As they saw us coming they ceased their chatter and looked up, but we
paid no attention to them, riding straight on for the aperture that led
into the trail outside the structure. I think we might have passed them
without question had there not suddenly burst from the doorway of what
was, I judge, the guard-room, an excited figure who shouted lustily to
all within hearing of his voice.

“Let no one leave! The Julian and the Or-tis have escaped!” he screamed.

The guard threw themselves across the entrance and at the same instant I
put spurs to Red Lightning, whipped out my sword, and bore down upon
them, the Or-tis following my example. I cut at one upon my left front
and Red Lightning bore down another beneath his iron hoofs. We were out
upon the trail and the Or-tis was beside us. Reining to the left we bore
south a few yards and then turned west upon another trail, the shouts
and curses of the Kalkars ringing in our ears.

With free rein we let our mounts out to far greater speed than the
darkness and the littered trail gave warrant, and it was not until we
had put a mile behind us that we drew in to a slower gait. The Or-tis
spurred to my side.

“I had not thought it could be done, Julian,” he said; “yet here we
ride, as free as any men in all the country wide.”

“But still within the shadow of The Butcher,” I replied. “Listen! They
are following hot-foot.” The pounding of the hoofs of our pursuers’
horses rose louder and louder behind us as we listened. Again we spurred
on, but presently we came to a place where a ruined wall had fallen
across the trail.

“May The Butcher get me!” cried the Or-tis, “that I should have
forgotten that this trail is blocked. We should have turned north or
south at the last crossing. Come, we must ride back quickly, if we are
to reach it before they.”

Wheeling, we put our mounts to the run back along the trail over which
we had but just come. It was but a short distance to the cross trail,
yet our case looked bad, for even in the darkness the pursuing Kalkars
could now be seen, so close were they. It was a question as to which
would reach the crossing first.

“You turn to the south,” I cried to the Or-tis, “and I will turn to the
north. In that way one of us may escape.”

“Good!” he agreed; “there are too many of them for us to stand and
fight.”

He was right—the trail was packed with them, and we could hear others
coming far behind the van. It was like a young army. I hugged the left
hand side of the trail and Or-tis the right. We reached the crossing not
a second in advance of the leaders of the pursuit and Or-tis turned to
the south and I to the north. Into the blackness of the new trail I
plunged and behind me came the Kalkars. I urged Red Lightning on and he
responded as I knew he would. It was madness to ride through the black
night along a strange trail at such speed, yet it was my only hope.
Quickly my fleet stallion drew away from the clumsy, ill-bred mounts of
my pursuers. At the first crossing I turned again to the west and though
here I encountered a steep and winding hill it was fortunately but a
short ride to the top and after that the way was along a rolling trail,
but mostly down hill.

The structures of the ancients that remained standing became fewer and
fewer as we proceeded and in an hour they had entirely disappeared. The
trail, however, was fairly well marked and after a single, short turn to
the south it continued westward over rolling country in almost a
straight line.

I had reduced my speed to conserve Red Lightning’s strength, and as no
sign of pursuit developed, I jogged along at a running walk, a gait
which Red Lightning could keep up for hours without fatigue. I had no
idea where the trail was leading me, and at the time I did not even know
that it was bearing west (for the heavens were still overcast), though I
judged that this must be the fact. My first thought was to put as much
distance as possible between me and the Kalkar camp and at the first
streak of dawn take to the hills and then work my way north and east in
an attempt to rejoin my people.

And so I moved on, through country that was now level and now rolling,
for the better part of three hours. A cool breeze sprang up and blew in
my face. It had a damp freshness and a strange odor with which I was
entirely unfamiliar. I was tired from my long exertions, from loss of
sleep and from lack of food and water, yet this strange breeze revived
me and filled me with new strength and life.

It had become very dark, although I knew that dawn must be near. I
wondered how Red Lightning could pick his way through the utter
blackness. This very thought was in my mind when he came to a sudden
halt. I could see nothing, yet I could tell that Red Lightning had some
good reason for his action. I listened and there came to my ears a
strange, sullen roar—a deep pounding, such as I never had heard before.
What could it be?

I dismounted to rest my beloved friend while I listened and sought for
an explanation of this monotonously reiterated sound. At length I
determined to await dawn before continuing. With the bridle reins about
my wrist I lay down, knowing that if danger threatened, Red Lightning
would warn me. In an instant I was asleep.

How long I slept I do not know—an hour, perhaps—but when I awoke it
was daylight and the first thing that broke upon my sensibilities was
the dull, monotonous booming, the pounding, pounding, pounding that had
lulled me to sleep so quickly.

Never shall I forget the scene that burst upon my astonished eyes as I
rose to my feet. Before me was a sheer cliff dropping straight away at
my feet, upon the very verge of which Red Lightning had halted the
previous night; and beyond, as far as the eye could reach, water—a vast
expanse of water, stretching on and on and on—the sea! At last a Julian
had looked upon it! It rolled up upon the sands below me, pounding,
surging, booming. It rolled back again, resistless, restless, and, at
once, terrifying and soothing. Terrifying in its immensity and mystery,
soothing in the majestic rhythm of its restlessness.