VII
                        THE ARREST OF JULIAN 8TH

A week later, Pthav sent for me and very gruffly told me that the teivos
had issued the permit for me to use the land adjoining that allotted to
my father. As before, his woman stopped me as I was leaving.

“It was easier than I thought,” she told me, “for Or-tis has angered the
teivos by attempting to usurp all its powers and knowing that he hates
you they were glad to grant your petition over his objection.”

During the next two or three months I was busy building our home and
getting my place in order. I had decided to raise horses and obtained
permission from the teivos to do so—again over Or-tis’ objections. Of
course the government controlled the entire horse traffic; but there
were a few skilled horsemen permitted to raise them, though at any time
their herds could be commandeered by the authorities. I knew that it
might not be a very profitable business; but I loved horses and wanted
to have just a few—a stallion and two or three mares. These I could use
in tilling my fields and in the heavier work of hauling, and at the same
time I would keep a few goats, pigs and chickens to insure us a living.

Father gave me half his goats and a few chickens, and from Jim I bought
two young sows and a boar. Later I traded a few goats to the teivos for
two old mares that they thought were no longer worth keeping and that
same day I was told of a stallion—a young outlaw—that Hoffmeyer had.
The beast was five years old and so vicious that none dared approach him
and they were on the point of destroying him.

I went to Hoffmeyer and asked if I could buy the animal—I offered him a
goat for it, which he was glad to accept and then I took a strong rope
and went to get my property. I found a beautiful bay with the temper of
a hellhound. When I attempted to enter the pen he rushed at me with ears
back and jaws distended; but I knew that I must conquer him now or never
and so I met him with only a rope in my hand, nor did I wait for him.
Instead, I ran to meet him and when he was in reach I struck him once
across the face with the rope, at which he wheeled and let both hind
feet fly out at me. Then I cast the noose that was at one end of the
rope and caught him about the neck and for half an hour we had a battle
of it.

I never struck him unless he tried to bite or strike me and finally I
must have convinced him that I was master, for he let me come close
enough to stroke his glossy neck, though he snorted loudly all the while
that I did so. When I had quieted him a bit I managed to get a half
hitch around his lower jaw and after that I had no difficulty in leading
him from the pen. Once in the open I took the coils of my rope in my
left hand and before the creature knew what I was about, had vaulted to
his back.

He fought fair, I’ll say that for him, for he stood on his feet; but for
fifteen minutes he brought into play every artifice known to horse-kind
for unseating a rider. Only my skill and my great strength kept me on
his back and at that even the Kalkars who were looking on had to applaud
my horsemanship.

After that it was easy. I treated him with kindness, something he had
never known before, and as he was an unusually intelligent animal, he
soon learned that I was not only his master but his friend, and from
being an outlaw he became one of the kindest and most tractable animals
I have ever seen, so much so in fact, that Juana used to ride him
bareback.

I love all horses and always have; but I think I never loved any animal
as I did Red Lightning, as we named him.

The authorities left us pretty well alone for some time because they
were quarreling among themselves. Jim said there was an ancient saying
about honest men getting a little peace when thieves fell out and it
certainly fitted our case perfectly; but the peace didn’t last forever
and when it broke the bolt that fell was the worst calamity that had
ever come to us.

One evening Father was arrested for trading at night and taken away by
the Kash Guard. They got him as he was returning to the house from the
goat pens and would not even permit him to bid good-bye to Mother. Juana
and I were eating supper in our own house about three hundred yards away
and never knew anything about it until Mother came running over to tell
us. She said that it was all done so quickly that they had Father and
were gone before she could run from the house to where they arrested
him. They had a spare horse and hustled him onto it—then they galloped
away toward the lake front. It seems strange that neither Juana nor I
heard the hoof beats of the horses; but we did not.

I went immediately to Pthav and demanded to know why Father had been
arrested; but he professed ignorance of the whole affair. I had ridden
to his place on Red Lightning and from there I started to the Kash Guard
barracks where the military prison is. It is contrary to law to approach
the barracks after sunset without permission, so I left Red Lightning in
the shadow of some ruins a hundred yards away and started on foot toward
that part of the post where I knew the prison to be located. The latter
consists of a high stockade around the inside of which are rude shelters
upon the roofs of which armed guards patrol. The center of the rectangle
is an open court where the prisoners exercise, cook their food, and wash
their clothing—if they care to. There are seldom more than fifty
confined here at a time as it is only a detention camp where they hold
those who are awaiting trial and those who have been sentenced to the
mines. The latter are usually taken away when there are from twenty-five
to forty of them.

After I reached the stockade I was at a loss to communicate with my
father, since any noise I might make would doubtless attract the
attention of the guard; but finally, through a crack between two boards,
I attracted the attention of a prisoner. The man came close to the
stockade and I whispered to him that I wished to speak with Julian 8th.
By luck I had happened upon a decent fellow, and it was not long before
he had brought Father and I was talking with him, in low whispers.

He told me that he had been arrested for trading by night and that he
was to be tried on the morrow. I asked him if he would like to
escape—that I would find the means if he wished me to, but he said that
he was innocent of the charge as he had not been off our farm at night
for months and that doubtless it was a case of mistaken identity and
that he would be freed in the morning.

I had my doubts; but he would not listen to escape as he argued that it
would prove his guilt and then they would have him for sure.

“Where may I go,” he asked, “if I escape? I might hide in the woods; but
what a life! I could never return to your mother, and so sure am I that
they can prove nothing against me that I would rather stand trial than
face the future as an outlaw.”

I think now that he refused my offer of assistance not because he
expected to be released but rather that he feared that evil might befall
me were I to connive at his escape. At any rate I did nothing, since he
would not let me, and went home again with a heavy heart and dismal
forebodings.

Trials before the teivos were public, or at least were supposed to be,
though they made it so uncomfortable for spectators that few, if any,
had the temerity to attend; but under Jarth’s new rule the proceedings
of the military courts were secret and Father was tried before such a
court.