VIII
                                 RABAN

I came to the summit without overtaking them, but I could tell from the
trail that they were not far ahead of me. The canyon trail is very
winding and there is a great deal of brush, so that oftentimes a
horseman a score of yards ahead of you is out of sight and the noise of
your own mount’s passage drowns that of the others. For this reason I
did not know, as long as I was in the canyon, how close I might be to
them; but when I reached the summit it was different. Then I could see
farther in all directions. The murderers were not in sight upon the
great highway of the ancients, and I rode swiftly to where the trail
drops down upon the north side of the mountains to the great valley that
I had seen the day before. There are fewer trees and lower brush upon
this side, and below me I could see the trail at intervals as it wound
downward and as I looked, I saw the first of a party of horsemen come
into sight around the shoulder of a hill as they made their way down
into the canyon.

To my right, a short distance, was a ridge leading from the summit
downward and along the flank of the canyon into which the riders were
descending. A single glance assured me that a few minutes of hard and
rather rough riding would permit me to gain the canyon ahead of the
riders and unseen by them, unless the brush proved heavier than it
appeared or some impassable ravine intervened. At least the venture was
worth essaying and so, not waiting for a longer inspection of the enemy,
I wheeled and rode along the summit and out on the ridge which I hoped
would prove an avenue to such a position as I wished to attain, where I
might carry out a species of warfare for which we are justly famous, in
that we are adepts at it.

I found along the ridge a faint game trail and this I followed at
reckless speed, putting Red Lightning down steep declivities in a manner
that must have caused him to think me mad, so careful am I ordinarily of
his legs; but today I was as inconsiderate of them as I was of my own
life.

At one place the thing I most feared occurred—a deep ravine cut
directly through the ridge, the side nearer me dropping almost sheer to
the bottom. There was some slight footing, however, part way down and
Red Lightning never hesitated as I put him over the brink. Squatting on
his haunches, his front legs stiff before him, he slid and stumbled
downward, gaining momentum as he went, until, about twenty feet from the
bottom, we went over a perpendicular dirt cliff together, landing in the
soft sand at the foot of it a bit shaken, but unhurt.

There was no time even for an instant’s breathing spell. Before us was
the steep acclivity of the opposite side and like a cat Red Lightning
pawed and scrambled his way up, clinging motionless at times for an
instant, his toes dug deep into the yielding earth, while I held my
breath as Fate decided whether he should hold his own or slip back into
the ravine; but at last we made it and once more were upon the summit of
the ridge.

Now I had to go more carefully, for my trail and the trail of the enemy
were converging and constantly the danger of apprehension increased. I
rode now slightly below the brow of the ridge, hidden from whomever
might be riding the trail along the opposite side, and presently I saw
the mouth of the canyon to my right and below me and across it the trail
along which the Kalkars must pass. That they had not already done so I
was confident, for I had ridden hard and almost in a straight line,
while they had been riding slowly when I saw them and the trail they
were following wound back and forth at an easy grade.

Where the ridge ended in a steep declivity at the bottom of the canyon I
drew rein and dismounted, and leaving Red Lightning hidden in the brush,
made my way to the summit where, below me, the trail lay in full view
for a distance of a hundred yards up the canyon and for half a mile
below. In my left hand I carried the heavy Kalkar bow and in my right a
bundle of arrows, while a score or more others protruded from my right
boot. Fitting an arrow to my bow I waited.

Nor did I have long to wait. I heard the clank of accouterments, the
thud of horses’ feet, the voices of men, and a moment later the head of
the little column appeared about the shoulder of a hill.

I had tried my Kalkar bow this morning upon the bucks and I was surer of
it now. It is a good bow, the principal objection to it being that it is
too cumbersome for a mounted warrior. It is very powerful, though, and
carries its heavy arrows accurately to a great distance. I knew now what
I could do with it. I waited until half a dozen riders had come into
view, covering the spot at which they appeared, and as the next one
presented himself I loosed my shaft. It caught the fellow in the groin,
and coming from above, as it did, passed through and into his horse. The
stricken animal reared and threw itself backward upon its rider; but
that I only caught with the tail of my eye, for I was loosing another
shaft at the man in front of him. He dropped with an arrow through his
neck.

By now all was pandemonium. Yelling and cursing, the balance of the
troop galloped into sight and with them I saw such a man as mortal eye
may never have rested upon before this time and, let us pray, never may
again. He sat a huge horse, which I instantly recognized as the fellow
who had made the great imprints in the trail I had been following to the
summit, and was himself a creature of such mighty size that he dwarfed
the big Kalkars about him.

Instantly I saw in him the giant, Raban, whom I had thought but the
figment of Saku’s imagination or superstition. On a horse at Raban’s
side rode Bethelda. For an instant I was so astonished by the size of
Raban that I forgot my business upon the ridge, but only for an instant.
I could not let drive at the giant for fear of hitting Bethelda, but I
brought down in quick succession the man directly in front of him and
one behind.

By now the Kalkars were riding around in circles looking for the foe,
and they presented admirable targets, as I had known they would. By the
blood of my fathers! But there is no greater sport than this form of
warfare. Always outnumbered by the Kalkars we have been forced to adopt
tactics aimed to harass the enemy and wear him down a little at a time.
By clinging constantly to his flanks, by giving him no rest, by cutting
off detachments from his main body and annihilating them, by swooping
down unexpectedly upon his isolated settlements, by roving the country
about him and giving battle to every individual we met upon the trails,
we have driven him two thousand miles across the world to his last stand
beside the sea.

As the Kalkars milled about in the canyon bottom I drove shaft after
shaft among them, but never could I get a fair shot at Raban the giant,
for always he kept Bethelda between us after he had located me,
guessing, evidently, that it was because of her that I had attacked his
party. He roared like a bull as he sought to urge his men up the ridge
to attack me, and some did make the attempt, half-heartedly, prompted,
no doubt, by fear of their master—a fear that must have been a little
greater than fear of the unknown enemy above them; but those who started
up after me never came far, for they and I soon discovered that with
their heavy bow I could drive their heavy arrows through their iron
vests as if they had been wool.

Raban, seeing that the battle was going against him, suddenly put spurs
to his great mount and went lumbering off down the canyon, dragging
Bethelda’s horse after him, while those of his men who remained covered
his retreat.

This did not suit me at all. I was not particularly interested in the
Kalkars he was leaving behind, but in him and his captive, and so I ran
to Red Lightning and mounted. As I reined down the flank of the ridge
toward the canyon bottom I saw the Kalkars drawing off after Raban.
There were but six of them left and they were strung out along the
trail. As they rode they cast backward glances in my direction as though
they were expecting to see a great force of warriors appear in pursuit.
When they saw me they did not return to engage me, but continued after
Raban.

I had reslung my bow beneath my right stirrup leather and replaced the
few arrows in my quiver as Red Lightning descended the side of the
ridge, and now I prepared my lance. Once upon the level trail of the
canyon bottom I whispered a word into the pointed ear before me, couched
my lance, and crouched in the saddle as the thirtieth descendant of the
first Red Lightning flattened in swift charge.

The last Kalkar in the retreating column, rather than receive my spear
through the small of his unprotected back, wheeled his horse, unslung
his spear and awaited me in the middle of the trail. It was his undoing.
No man can meet the subtle tricks of a charging lancer from the back of
a standing horse, for he cannot swerve to one side or the other with the
celerity oft necessary to elude the point of his foe’s lance, or take
advantage of what opening the other may inadvertently leave him, and
doubly true was this of the Kalkar upon his clumsy, splay-footed mount.
So awkward were the twain that they could scarcely have gotten out of
their own way, much less mine, and so I took him where I would as I
crashed into him, which was the chest, and my heavy lance passed through
him, carrying him over his horse’s rump, splintering as he fell to
earth. I cast the useless stump aside as I reined Red Lightning in and
wheeled him about. I saw the nearer Kalkar halted in the trail to watch
the outcome of the battle, and now that he saw his companion go down to
death and me without a lance he bore down upon me, and I guess he
thought that he had me on the run, for Red Lightning was indeed racing
away from him, back toward the fallen foe; but with a purpose in my mind
that one better versed in the niceties of combat might have sensed. As I
passed the dead Kalkar I swung low from my saddle and picked his lance
from where it lay in the dust beside him, and then, never reducing our
speed, I circled and came back to meet the rash one riding to his doom.
Together we came at terrific speed, and as we approached one another I
saw the tactics that this new adversary was bent upon using to my
destruction and I may say that he used judgment far beyond the seeming
capacity of his low forehead, for he kept his horse’s head ever straight
for Red Lightning’s front with the intention of riding me down and
overthrowing my mount, which, considering the disparity of their
weights, he would certainly have accomplished had we met full on; but we
did not. My reins lay on Red Lightning’s withers. With a touch of my
left knee I swung the red stallion to the right and passed my spear to
my left hand, all in a fraction of the time it takes to tell it, and as
we met I had the Kalkar helpless, for he was not expecting me upon his
left hand, his heavy horse could not swerve with the agility of Red
Lightning, and so I had but to pick my target and put the fellow out of
his misery—for it must be misery to be a low creature of a Kalkar. In
the throat my point caught him, for I had no mind to break another lance
since I saw two more of the enemy riding toward me, and being of tough
wood, the weapon tore out through the flesh as the fellow tumbled
backward into the dust of the trail.

There were four Kalkars remaining between me and the giant who,
somewhere down the canyon and out of sight now, was bearing Bethelda
off, I knew not where or to what fate. The four were strung out at
intervals along the trail and seemed undecided as to whether to follow
Raban or wait and argue matters out with me. Perhaps they hoped that I
would realize the futility of pitting myself against their superior
numbers, but when I lowered my lance and charged the nearer of them,
they must have realized that I was without discretion and must be ridden
down and dispatched. Fortunately for me they were separated by
considerable intervals and I did not have to receive them all at once.
The nearer, fortified by the sound of his companions’ galloping
approach, couched his lance and came halfway to meet me, but I think
much of his enthusiasm must have been lost in contemplation of the fate
that he had seen overtake the others that had pitted their crude skill
against me, for certainly there were neither fire nor inspiration in his
attack, which more closely resembled a huge, senseless boulder rolling
down a mountainside than a sentient creature of nerves and brain driven
by lofty purposes of patriotism and honor.

Poor clod! An instant later the world was a better place in which to
live, by at least one less Kalkar; but he cost me another lance and a
flesh wound in the upper arm, and left me facing his three fellows, who
were now so close upon me that there was no time in which to retrieve
the lance fallen from his nerveless fingers. There was recourse only to
the sword, and drawing, I met the next of them with only a blade against
his long lance; but I eluded his point, closed with him and, while he
sought to draw, clove him open from his shoulder to the center of his
chest.

It took but an instant, yet that instant was my undoing, for the
remaining two were already upon me. I turned in time to partially dodge
the lance point of the foremost, but it caught me a glancing blow upon
the head and that is the last that I remember of immediately ensuing
events.

When next I opened my eyes I was jouncing along, lashed to a saddle,
belly down across a horse. Within the circumscribed limits of my vision
lay a constantly renewed circle of dusty trail and four monotonously
moving, gray, shaggy legs. At least I was not on Red Lightning.

I had scarcely regained consciousness when the horse bearing me was
brought to a stop, and the two accompanying Kalkars dismounted and
approached me. Removing the bonds that held me to the saddle, they
dragged me unceremoniously to the ground and when I stood erect they
were surprised to see that I was conscious.

“Dirty Yank!” cried one and struck me in the face with his open palm.

His companion laid a hand upon his arm. “Hold, Tav,” he expostulated;
“he put up a good fight against great odds.” The speaker was a man of
about my own height and might have passed as a full-blood Yank, though,
as I thought at the time, doubtless he was a half-breed.

The other gestured his disgust. “A dirty Yank,” he repeated. “Keep him
here, Okonnor, while I find Raban and ask what to do with him.” He
turned and left us.

We had halted at the foot of a low hill upon which grew tremendous old
trees and of such infinite variety that I marveled at them. There were
pine, cypress, hemlock, sycamore and acacia that I recognized and many
others the like of which I never before had seen, and between the trees
grew flowering shrubs, and where the ground was open it was carpeted
with flowers—great masses of color; and there were little pools choked
with lilies, and countless birds and butterflies. Never had I looked
upon a place of such wondrous beauty. Through the trees I could see the
outlines of the ruins of one of the stone tents of the ancients sitting
upon the summit of the low hill. It was toward this structure that he
who was called Tav was departing from us.

“What place is this?” I asked the fellow guarding me, my curiosity
overcoming my natural aversion to conversation with his kind.

“It is the tent of Raban,” he replied. “Until recently it was the home
of Or-tis the Jemadar—the true Or-tis. The false Or-tis dwells in the
great tents of The Capital. He would not last long in this valley.”

“What is this Raban?” I asked.

“He is a great robber. He preys upon all, and to such an extent has he
struck terror to the hearts of all who have heard of him that he takes
toll as he will, and easily. They say that he eats the flesh of humans,
but that I do not know—I have been with him but a short time. After the
assassination of the true Or-tis I joined him because he preys upon the
Kalkars. He lived long in the eastern end of the valley where he could
prey upon the outskirts of The Capital and then he did not rob or murder
the people of the valley; but with the death of Or-tis he came and took
this place and now he preys upon my people as well as upon the Kalkars,
but I remain with him since I must serve either him or the Kalkars.”

“You are not a Kalkar?” I asked, and I could believe it because of his
good old American name, Okonnor.

“I am a Yank; and you?”

“I am Julian 20th, The Red Hawk,” I replied.

He raised his brows. “I have heard of you in the past few days,” he
said. “Your people are fighting mightily at the edge of The Capital; but
they will be driven back—the Kalkars are too many. Raban will be glad
of you if the stories they tell of him are true. One is that he eats the
hearts of brave warriors that fall into his hands.”

I smiled. “What is the creature?” I asked again. “Where originates such
a breed?”

“He is only a Kalkar,” replied Okonnor; “but even a greater monstrosity
than his fellows. He was born in The Capital, of ordinary Kalkar
parents, they say, and early developed a lust for blood that has
increased with the passing years. He boasts yet of his first murder—he
killed his mother when he was ten.”

I shuddered. “And it is into the hands of such that a daughter of the
Or-tis has fallen,” I said, “and you, an American, aided in her
capture.”

He looked at me in startled surprise. “The daughter of an Or-tis?” he
cried.

“Of _the_ Or-tis,” I repeated.

“I did not know,” he said. “I was not close to her at any time and
thought that she was but a Kalkar woman.”

“What are you going to do? Can you save her?”

He drew his knife and cut the bonds that held my arms behind me. “Hide
here among the trees,” he said, “and watch the Raban until I return. It
will be after dark, but I will bring help. This valley is almost
exclusively peopled by those who have refused to intermarry with the
Kalkars and have brought down their strain unsullied from ancient times.
There are almost a thousand fighting men of pure Yank blood within its
confines. I should be able to gather enough to put an end to Raban for
all time, and if the danger of a daughter of Or-tis cannot move them
from their shame and cowardice they are hopeless indeed.”

He mounted his horse. “Quick!” he cried, “get among the trees.”

“Where is my horse?” I called as he was riding away. “He was not
killed?”

“No,” he called back; “he ran off when you fell. We did not try to catch
him.” A moment later he disappeared around the west end of the hill and
I entered the miniature forest that clothed it. Through the gloom of my
sorrow broke one ray of happiness—Red Lightning lived.

About me grew ancient trees of enormous size with boles five or six feet
in diameter and their upper foliage waving a hundred and more feet above
my head. Their branches excluded the sun where they grew thickest and
beneath them baby trees struggled for existence in the wan light, or
hoary monsters, long fallen, lay embedded in leaf mold, marking the spot
where some long dead ancient set out a tiny seedling that was to outlive
all his kind.

It was a wonderful place in which to hide, though hiding is an
accomplishment that we Julians have little training in and less stomach
for. However, in this instance it was in a worthy cause—a Julian hiding
from a Kalkar in the hope of aiding an Or-tis! Ghosts of nineteen
Julians! To what had I brought my proud name? And yet I could not be
ashamed. There was something stubbornly waging war against all my
inherited scruples, and I knew that it was going to win—had already
won. I would have sold my soul for this daughter of my enemy.

I made my way up the hill toward the ruined tent, but at the summit the
shrubbery was so dense that I could see nothing. Rose bushes fifteen
feet high and growing as thickly together as a wall hid everything from
my sight. I could not even penetrate them. Near me was a mighty tree
with a strange, feathery foliage. It was such a tree as I had never seen
before, but that fact did not interest me so much as the discovery that
it might be climbed to a point that would permit me to see above the top
of the rose bushes.

What I saw included two stone tents not so badly ruined as most of those
one comes across, and between them a pool of water—an artificial pool
of straight lines. Some fallen columns of stone lay about it and the
vines and creepers fell over its edge into the water, almost concealing
the stone rim. As I watched, a group of men came from the ruin to the
east through a great archway, the coping of which had fallen away. They
were all Kalkars and among them was Raban. I had my first opportunity to
view him closely. He was a most repulsive appearing creature. His great
size might easily have struck with awe the boldest heart, for he stood a
full nine feet in height and was very large in proportion about the
shoulders, chest and limbs. His forehead was so retreating that one
might with truth say he had none, his thick thatch of stiffly erect hair
almost meeting his shaggy eyebrows. His eyes were small and set close to
a coarse nose and all his countenance was bestial. I had not dreamed
that a man’s face could be so repulsive.

He was speaking to that one of my captors who had left me at the foot of
the hill to apprise Raban of my taking—that fellow who struck me in the
face while my hands were bound and whose name was Tav. He spoke in a
roaring, bull-like voice which I thought at the time was, like his
swaggering walk and his braggadocio, but a pose to strike terror in
those about him. I could not look at the creature and believe that real
courage lay within so vile a carcass. I have known many fearless
men—The Vulture, The Wolf, The Rock and hundreds like them—and in
each, courageousness was reflected in some outward physical attribute of
dignity and majesty.

“Fetch him!” he roared at Tav. “Fetch him! I will have his heart for my
supper,” and after Tav had gone to fetch me, the giant stood there with
his other followers, roaring and bellowing and always about himself and
what he had done and what he would do. He seemed to me an exaggeration
of a type I had seen before, wherein gestures simulate action, noise
counterfeits courage, and wind passes for brains. The only impressive
thing about him was his tremendous bulk and yet even that did not
impress me greatly—I have known small men, whom I respected, that
filled me with far greater awe. I did not fear him. I think only the
ignorant could have feared him at all, and I did not believe all the
pother about his eating human flesh. I am of the opinion that a man who
really intended eating the heart of another would say nothing about it.

Presently Tav came running back up the hill. He was much excited, as I
had known that he would be, even before he started off to fetch me.

“He is gone!” he cried to Raban. “They are both gone—Okonnor and the
Yank. Look!” he held out the thongs that had fastened my wrists. “They
have been cut. How could he cut them with his hands bound behind him?
That is what I want to know. How could he have done it? He could not
unless——”

“There must have been others with him,” roared Raban. “They followed and
set him free, taking Okonnor captive.”

“There were no others,” insisted Tav.

“Perhaps Okonnor freed him,” suggested another.

So obvious an explanation could not have originated in the pea girth
brain of Raban and so he said: “I knew it from the first—it was
Okonnor. With my own hands I shall tear out his liver and eat it for
breakfast.”

Certain insects, toads and men make a lot of unnecessary noise, but the
vast majority of other animals pass through life in dignified silence.
It is our respect for these other animals that cause us to take their
names. Whoever heard of a red hawk screeching his intentions to the
world? Silently he soars above the treetops, and as silently he swoops
and strikes.