“Great Scott!” cried my guest, leaping to his feet and looking out of
the stateroom window, “I had no idea that I had kept you up all night.
Here we are in Paris already.”

“But the rest of your story,” I cried. “You have not finished it, I
know. Last night, as you were watching them celebrating in the Blue
Room, you made a remark which led me to believe that some terrible
calamity threatened the world.”

“It does,” he said, “and that was what I meant to tell you about, but
this story of the third incarnation of which I am conscious was
necessary to an understanding of how the great catastrophe overwhelmed
the people of the Earth.”

“But, did you reach Earth again?” I demanded.

“Yes,” he said, “in the year 2036. I had been ten years within Va-nah,
but did not know whether it was ten months or a century until we landed
upon Earth.”

He smiled then. “You notice that I still say I. It is sometimes
difficult for me to recall which incarnation I am in. Perhaps it will be
clearer to you if I say Julian 5th returned to earth in 2036, and in the
same year his son, Julian 6th, was born to his wife, Nah-ee-lah the Moon
Maid.”

“But how could he return to Earth in the disabled _Barsoom_?”

“Ah,” he said, “that raises a point that was of great interest to Julian
5th. After he regained _The Barsoom_, naturally one of the first
questions he asked was as to the condition of the ship and their
intentions, and when he learned that they had, in reality, been
intending to pass through the crater toward the Earth he questioned them
further and discovered that it was the young ensign, Norton, who had
repaired the engine, having been able to do it by information that he
had gleaned from Orthis, after winning the latter’s friendship. Thus was
explained the intimacy between the two, which Julian 5th had so
deplored, but which he now saw that young Norton had encouraged for a
patriotic purpose.”

“We are docked now and I must be going. Thank you for your hospitality
and for your generous interest,” and he held out his hand toward me.

“But the story of Julian 9th,” I insisted, “am I never to hear that?”

“If we meet again, yes,” he promised, with a smile.

“I shall hold you to it,” I told him.

“If we meet again,” he repeated, and departed, closing the stateroom
door after him.




                                PART II
                              THE MOON MEN
                     _Being the Story of Julian 9th_




                                PROLOGUE
                              THE CONQUEST

It was two years after I had first met him aboard the liner _Harding_
that I came across him again. I had just been appointed Secretary of
Commerce. He came to my office in Washington on official business during
March, 1969. I invited him to my home for dinner and it was later in the
evening that I importuned him for the promised story of Julian 9th.

He laughed good naturedly. “Very well,” he exclaimed, “here goes!”