I
                      THE FLIGHT OF “THE BARSOOM”

“I had intended telling you my story of the days of the twenty-second
century, but it seems best, if you are to understand it, to tell first
the story of my great-great-grandfather who was born in the year 2000.”

I must have looked up at him quizzically, for he smiled and shook his
head as one who is puzzled to find an explanation suited to the mental
capacity of his auditor.

“My great-great-grandfather was, in reality, the great-great-grandson of
my previous incarnation which commenced in 1896. I married in 1916, at
the age of twenty. My son Julian was born in 1917. I never saw him. I
was killed in France in 1918—on Armistice Day.

“I was again reincarnated in my son’s son in 1937. I am thirty years of
age. My son was born in 1970—that is the son of my 1937
incarnation—and his son, Julian 5th, in whom I again returned to Earth,
in the year 2000. I see you are confused, but please remember my
injunction that you are to try to keep in mind the theory that there is
no such thing as Time. It is now the year 1967 yet I recall distinctly
every event of my life that occurred in four incarnations—the last that
I recall being that which had its origin in the year 2100. Whether I
actually skipped three generations that time or through some caprice of
Fate I am merely unable to visualize an intervening incarnation, I do
not know.

“My theory of the matter is that I differ only from my fellows in that I
can recall the events of many incarnations, while they can recall none
of theirs other than a few important episodes of that particular one
they are experiencing; but perhaps I am wrong. It is of no importance. I
will tell you the story of Julian 5th who was born in the year 2000, and
then, if we have time and you yet are interested, I will tell you of the
torments during the harrowing days of the twenty-second century,
following the birth of Julian 9th in 2100.”

I will try to tell the story in his own words in so far as I can recall
them, but for various reasons, not the least of which is that I am lazy,
I shall omit superfluous quotation marks—that is, with your permission,
of course.