XIV
                         BACK TO “THE BARSOOM”

The city was already in flames in many places, and though the people
fought valiantly to extinguish them, it seemed to me that they but
spread the more rapidly with each succeeding minute. And then, as
suddenly as it had commenced, the bombardment ceased. Nah-ee-lah and I
crossed over to the outer edge of the terrace to see if we could note
any new movement by the enemy, nor did we have long to wait. We saw a
hundred ladders raised as if by magic toward the lowest terrace, which
rose but a bare two hundred feet above the base of the city. The men who
carried the ladders were not visible to us when they came close to the
base of the wall, but I guessed from the distant glimpses that I caught
of the ladders as they were rushed forward by running men that here,
again, Orthis’ earthly knowledge and experience had come to the
assistance of the Kalkars, for I was sure that only some form of
extension ladder could be successfully used to reach even the lowest
terrace.

When I saw their intention I ran quickly down into the palace and out
upon the terrace before the gates, where the remainder of the guard were
stationed, and there I told them what was happening and urged them to
hasten the people to the lowest terrace to repulse the enemy before they
had secured a foothold upon the city. Then I returned to Nah-ee-lah, and
together we watched the outcome of the struggle, but almost from the
first I realized that Laythe was doomed, for before any of her defenders
could reach the spot, fully a thousand Kalkars had clambered to the
terrace, and there they held their own while other thousands ascended in
safety to the city.

We saw the defenders rush forth to attack them, and for a moment, so
impetuous was their charge, I thought that I had been wrong and that the
Kalkars might yet be driven from Laythe. Fighting upon the lower outer
terrace far beneath us was a surging mass of shouting warriors. The
Kalkars were falling back before the impetuous onslaught of the
Laytheans.

“They have not the blood in their veins,” whispered Nah-ee-lah, clinging
tightly to my arm. “One noble is worth ten of them. Watch them. Already
are they fleeing.”

And so it seemed, and the rout of the Kalkars appeared almost assured,
as score upon score of them were hurled over the edge of the terrace, to
fall mangled and bleeding upon the ground hundreds of feet below.

But suddenly a new force seemed to be injected into the strife. I saw a
stream of Kalkars emerging above the edge of the lower terrace—new men
clambering up the ladders from the plateau below, and as they came they
shouted something which I could not understand, but the other Kalkars
seemed to take heart and made once more the semblance of a stand against
the noble Laytheans, and I saw one, the leader of the newcomers, force
his way into the battling throng. And then I saw him raise his hand
above his head and hurl something into the midst of the compact ranks of
the Laytheans.

Instantly there was a terrific explosion and a great, bloody gap lay
upon the terrace where an instant before a hundred of the flower of the
fighting men of Laythe had been so gloriously defending their city and
their honor.

“Grenades,” I exclaimed. “Hand grenades!”

“What is it, Julian? What is it that they are doing down there?” cried
Nah-ee-lah. “They are murdering my people.”

“Yes, Nah-ee-lah, they are murdering your people, and well may Va-nah
curse the day that Earth Men set foot upon your world.”

“I do not understand, Julian,” she said.

“This is the work of Orthis,” I said, “who has brought from Earth the
knowledge of diabolical engines of destruction. He first shelled the
city with what must have been nothing more than crude mortars, for it is
impossible that he has had the time to construct the machinery to build
any but the simplest of guns. Now his troops are hurling hand grenades
among your men. There is no chance, Nah-ee-lah, for the Laytheans to
successfully pit their primitive weapons against the modern agents of
destruction which Orthis has brought to bear against them. Laythe must
surrender or be destroyed.”

Nah-ee-lah laid her head upon my shoulder and wept softly. “Julian,” she
said at last, “this is the end, then. Take me to the Jemadav, my mother,
please, and then you must go and make your peace with your fellow Earth
Man. It is not right that you, a stranger, who have done so much for me,
should fall with me and Laythe.”

“The only peace I can make with Orthis, Nah-ee-lah,” I replied, “is the
peace of death. Orthis and I may not live together again in the same
world.”

She was crying very softly, sobbing upon my shoulder, and I put my arm
about her in an effort to quiet her.

“I have brought you only suffering and danger, and now death, Julian,”
she said, “when you deserve naught but happiness and peace.”

I suddenly felt very strange and my heart behaved wretchedly, so that
when I attempted to speak it pounded so that I could say nothing and my
knees shook beneath me. What had come over me? Could it be possible that
already Orthis had loosed his poison gas? Then, at last, I managed to
gather myself together.

“Nah-ee-lah,” I said, “I do not fear death if you must die, and I do not
seek happiness except with you.”

She looked up suddenly, her great, tear-dimmed eyes wide and gazing deep
into mine.

“You mean—Julian? You mean—?”

“I mean, Nah-ee-lah, that I love you,” I replied, though I must have
stumbled through the words in a most ridiculous manner, so frightened
was I.

“Ah, Julian,” she sighed, and put her arms about my neck.

“And you, Nah-ee-lah!” I exclaimed incredulously, as I crushed her to
me, “can it be that you return my love?”

“I have loved you always,” she replied. “From the very first,
almost—way back when we were prisoners together in the No-vans village.
You Earth Men must be very blind, my Julian. A Laythean would have known
it at once, for it seemed to me that upon a dozen occasions I almost
avowed my love openly to you.”

“Alas, Nah-ee-lah! I must have been very blind, for I had not guessed
until this minute that you loved me.”

“Now,” she said, “I do not care what happens. We have one another, and
if we die together, doubtless we shall live together in a new
incarnation.”

“I hope so,” I said, “but I should much rather be sure of it and live
together in this.”

“And I, too, Julian, but that is impossible.”

We were walking now through the corridors of the palace toward the
chamber occupied by her mother, but we did not find her there and
Nah-ee-lah became apprehensive as to her safety. Hurriedly we searched
through other chambers of the palace, until at last we came to the
little audience chamber in which Sagroth had been slain, and as we threw
open the door I saw a sight that I tried to hide from Nah-ee-lah’s eyes
as I drew her around in an effort to force her back into the corridor.
Possibly she guessed what impelled my action, for she shook her head and
murmured: “No, Julian; whatever it is I must see it.” And then she
pushed her way gently past me, and we stood together upon the threshold,
looking at the harrowing sight which the interior of the room displayed.

There were the bodies of the assassins Sagroth and I had slain, and the
dead Jemadar, too, precisely as he had fallen, while across his breast
lay the body of Nah-ee-lah’s mother, a dagger self-thrust through her
heart. For just a moment Nah-ee-lah stood there looking at them in
silence, as though in prayer, and then she turned wearily away and left
the chamber, closing the door behind her. We walked on in silence for
some time, ascending the stairway back to the upper terrace. Upon the
inner side, the flames were spreading throughout the city, roaring like
a mighty furnace and vomiting up great clouds of smoke, for though the
Laythean terraces are supported by tremendous arches of masonry, yet
there is much wood used in the interior construction of the buildings,
while the hangings and the furniture are all inflammable.

“We had no chance to save the city,” said Nah-ee-lah, with a sigh. “Our
people, called from their normal duties by the false Ko-tah, were
leaderless. The fire fighters, instead of being at their posts, were
seeking the life of their Jemadar. Unhappy day! Unhappy day!”

“You think they could have stopped the fire?” I asked.

“The little ponds, the rivulets, the waterfalls, the great public baths
and the tiny lakes that you see upon every terrace were all built with
fire protection in mind. It is easy to divert their waters and flood any
tier of buildings. Had my people been at their posts, this, at least,
could not have happened.”

As we stood watching the flames we suddenly saw people emerging in great
numbers upon several of the lower terraces. They were evidently in
terrified flight, and then others appeared upon terraces above
them—Kalkars who hurled hand grenades amongst the Laytheans beneath
them. Men, women, and children ran hither and thither, shrieking and
crying and seeking for shelter, but from the buildings behind them,
rushing them outward upon the terraces, came other Kalkars with hand
grenades. The fires hemmed the people of Laythe upon either side and the
Kalkars attacked them from the rear and from above. The weaker fell and
were trodden to death, and I saw scores fall upon their own lances or
drive daggers into the hearts of their loved ones.

The massacre spread rapidly around the circumference of the city and the
Kalkars drove the people from the upper terraces downward between the
raging fires which were increasing until the mouth of the great crater
was filled with roaring flames and smoke. In the occasional gaps we
could catch glimpses of the holocaust beneath us.

A sudden current of air rising from the crater lifted the smoke pall
high for a moment, revealing the entire circumference of the crater, the
edge of which was crowded with Laytheans. And then I saw a warrior from
the opposite side leap upon the surrounding wall that bordered the lower
terrace at the edge of the yawning crater. He turned and called aloud
some message to his fellows, and then wheeling, threw his arms above his
head and leaped outward into the yawning, bottomless abyss. Instantly
the others seemed to be inoculated with the infection of his mad act. A
dozen men leaped to the wall and dove head foremost into the crater. The
thing spread slowly at first, and then with the rapidity of a prairie
fire, it ran around the entire circle of the city. Women hurled their
children in and then leaped after them. The multitude fought one with
another for a place upon the wall from which they might cast themselves
to death. It was a terrible—an awe-inspiring sight.

Nah-ee-lah covered her eyes with her hands. “My poor people!” she cried.
“My poor people!” And far below her, by the thousands now, they were
hurling themselves into eternity, while above them the screaming Kalkars
hurled hand grenades among them and drove the remaining inhabitants of
Laythe, terrace by terrace, down toward the crater’s rim.

Nah-ee-lah turned away. “Come, Julian,” she said, “I cannot look, I
cannot look.” And together we walked across the terrace to the outer
side of the city.

Almost directly beneath us upon the next terrace was a palace gate and
as we reached a point where we could see it, I was horrified to see that
the Kalkars had made their way up the outer terraces to the very palace
walls. The Jemadar’s guard was standing there ready to defend the palace
against the invaders. The great stone gates would have held indefinitely
against spears and swords, but even the guardsmen must have guessed that
their doom was already sealed and that these gates, that had stood for
ages, an ample protection to the Jemadars of Laythe, were about to fall,
as the Kalkars halted fifty yards away, and from their ranks a single
individual stepped forth a few paces.

As my eyes alighted upon him I seized Nah-ee-lah’s arm. “Orthis!” I
cried. “It is Orthis.” At the same instant the man’s eyes rose above the
gates and fell upon us. A nasty leer curled his lips as he recognized
us.

“I come to claim my bride,” he cried, in a voice that reached us easily,
“and to balance my account with you, at last,” and he pointed a finger
at me.

In his right hand he held a large, cylindrical object, and as he ceased
speaking he hurled it at the gates precisely as a baseball pitcher
pitches a swift ball.

The missile struck squarely at the bottom of the gates. There was a
terrific explosion, and the great stone portals crumbled, shattered into
a thousand fragments. The last defense of the Empress of Laythe had
fallen, and with it there went down in bloody death at least half the
remaining members of her loyal guard.

Instantly the Kalkars rushed forward, hurling hand grenades among the
survivors of the guard.

Nah-ee-lah turned toward me and put her arms about my neck.

“Kiss me once more, Julian,” she said, “and then the dagger.”

“Never, never, Nah-ee-lah!” I cried. “I cannot do it.”

“But I can!” she exclaimed, and drew her own from its sheath at her hip.

I seized her wrist. “Not that, Nah-ee-lah!” I cried. “There must be some
other way.” And then there came to me a mad inspiration. “The wings!” I
cried. “Where are they kept? The last of your people have been
destroyed. Duty no longer holds you here. Let us escape, even if it is
only to frustrate Orthis’ plans and deny him the satisfaction of
witnessing our death.”

“But, where can we go?” she asked.

“We may at least choose our own manner of death,” I replied, “far from
Laythe and far from the eyes of an enemy who would gloat over our
undoing.”

“You are right, Julian. We still have a little time, for I doubt if
Orthis or his Kalkars can quickly find the stairway leading to this
terrace.” And then she led me quickly to one of the many towers that
rise above the palace. Entering it, we ascended a spiral staircase to a
large chamber at the summit of the tower. Here were kept the imperial
wings. I fastened Nah-ee-lah’s to her and she helped me with mine, and
then from the pinnacle of the tower we arose above the burning city of
Laythe and flew rapidly toward the distant lowlands and the sea. It was
in my mind to search out, if possible, the location of _The Barsoom_,
for I still entertained the mad hope that my companions yet lived—if I
did, why not they?

The heat above the city was almost unendurable and the smoke
suffocating, yet we passed through it, so that almost immediately we
were hidden from the view of that portion of the palace from which we
had arisen, with the result that when Orthis and his Kalkars finally
found their way to the upper terrace, as I have no doubt they did, we
had disappeared—whither they could not know.

We flew and drifted with the wind across the mountainous country toward
the plains and the sea, it being my intention upon reaching the latter
to follow the coast line until I came to a river marked by an island at
its mouth. From that point I knew that I could reach the spot where _The
Barsoom_ had landed.

Our long flight must have covered a considerable period of time, since
it was necessary for us to alight and rest many times and to search for
food. We met, fortunately, with no mishaps, and upon the several
occasions when we were discovered by roving bands of Va-gas we were able
to soar far aloft and escape them easily. We came at length, however, to
the sea, the coast of which I followed to the left, but though we passed
the mouths of many rivers, I discovered none that precisely answered the
description of that which I sought.

It was borne in upon me at last that our quest was futile, but where we
were to find a haven of safety neither of us could guess. The gas in our
bags was losing its buoyancy and we had no means wherewith to replenish
it. It would still maintain us for a short time, but how long neither of
us knew, other than that it had not nearly the buoyancy that it
originally possessed.

Off the coast we had seen islands almost continuously and I suggested to
Nah-ee-lah that we try to discover one upon which grew the fruits and
nuts and vegetables necessary for our subsistence, and where we might
also have a constant supply of fresh water.

I discovered that Nah-ee-lah knew little about these islands,
practically nothing in fact, not even as to whether they were inhabited;
but we determined to explore one, and to this end we selected an island
of considerable extent that lay about ten miles off shore. We reached it
without difficulty and circled slowly above it, scrutinizing its entire
area carefully. About half of it was quite hilly, but the balance was
rolling and comparatively level. We discovered three streams and two
small lakes upon it, and an almost riotous profusion of vegetable
growth, but nowhere did we discern the slightest indication that it was
inhabited. And so at last, feeling secure, we made our landing upon the
plain, close to the beach.

It was a beautiful spot, a veritable Garden of Eden, where we two might
have passed the remainder of our lives in peace and security, for though
we later explored it carefully, we found not the slightest evidence that
it had ever known the foot of man.

Together we built a snug shelter against the storms. Together we hunted
for food, and during our long periods of idleness we lay upon the soft
sward beside the beach, and to pass the time away, I taught Nah-ee-lah
my own language.

It was a lazy, indolent, happy life that we spent upon this enchanted
isle, and yet, though we were happy in our love, each of us felt the
futility of our existence, where our lives must be spent in useless
idleness.

We had, however, given up definitely hope for any other form of
existence. And thus we were lying one time, as was our wont after
eating, stretched in luxurious ease upon our backs on the soft lunar
grasses, I with my eyes closed, when Nah-ee-lah suddenly grasped me by
the arm.

“Julian,” she cried, “what is it? Look!”

I opened my eyes, to find her sitting up and gazing into the sky toward
the mainland, a slim forefinger indicating the direction of the object
that had attracted her attention and aroused her surprised interest.

As my eyes rested upon the thing her pointing finger indicated, I leaped
to my feet with an exclamation of incredulity, for there, sailing
parallel with the coast at an altitude of not more than a thousand feet,
was a ship, the lines of which I knew as I had known my mother’s face.
It was _The Barsoom_.

Grasping Nah-ee-lah by the arm, I dragged her to her feet. “Come, quick,
Nah-ee-lah!” I cried, and urged her rapidly toward our hut, where we had
stored the wings and the gas bags which we had never thought to use
again, yet protected carefully, though why we knew not.

There was still gas in the bags—enough to support us in the air, with
the assistance of our wings, but to fly thus for long distances would
have been most fatiguing, and there was even a question as to whether we
could cross the ten miles of sea that lay between us and the mainland;
yet I was determined to attempt it. Hastily we donned the wings and
bags, and rising together, flapped slowly in the direction of the
mainland.

_The Barsoom_ was cruising slowly along a line that would cross ours
before we could reach the shore, but I hoped that they would sight us
and investigate.

We flew as rapidly as I dared, for I could take no chances upon
exhausting Nah-ee-lah, knowing that it would be absolutely impossible
for me to support her weight and my own, with our depleted gas bags.
There was no way in which I could signal to _The Barsoom_. We must
simply fly toward her. That was the best that we could do, and finally,
try though we would, I realized that we should be too late to intercept
her and that unless they saw us and changed their course, we should not
come close enough to hail them. To see my friends passing so near, and
yet to be unable to apprise them of my presence filled me with
melancholy. Not one of the many vicissitudes and dangers through which I
had passed since I left Earth depressed me more than the sight of _The
Barsoom_ forging slowly past us without speaking. I saw her change her
course then and move inland still further from us, and I could not but
dwell upon our unhappy condition, since now we might never again be able
to reach the safety of our island, there being even a question as to
whether the gas bags would support us to the mainland.

They did, however, and there we alighted and rested, while _The Barsoom_
sailed out of sight toward the mountains.

“I shall not give it up, Nah-ee-lah,” I cried. “I am going to follow
_The Barsoom_ until we find it, or until we die in the attempt. I doubt
if we ever can reach the island again, but we can make short flights
here on land, and by so doing, we may overtake my ship and my
companions.”

After resting for a short time, we arose again, and when we were above
the trees I saw _The Barsoom_ far in the distance, and again it was
circling, this time toward the left, so we altered our course and flew
after it. But presently we realized that it was making a great circle
and hope renewed within our breasts, giving us the strength to fly on
and on, though we were forced to come down often for brief rests. As we
neared the ship we saw that the circles were growing smaller, but it was
not until we were within about three miles of her that I realized that
she was circling the mouth of a great crater, the walls of which rose
several hundred feet above the surrounding country. We had been forced
to land again to rest, when there flashed upon my mind a sudden
realization of the purpose of the maneuvers of _The Barsoom_—she was
investigating the crater, preparatory to an attempt to pass through it
into outer space and seek to return to Earth again.

As this thought impinged upon my brain, a wave of almost hopeless horror
overwhelmed me as I thought of being definitely left forever by my
companions and that by but a few brief minutes Nah-ee-lah was to be
robbed of life and happiness and peace, for at that instant the hull of
_The Barsoom_ dropped beneath the rim of the crater and disappeared from
our view.

Rising quickly with Nah-ee-lah, I flew as rapidly as my tired muscles
and exhausted gas bag would permit toward the rim of the crater. In my
heart of hearts I knew that I should be too late, for once they had
decided to make the attempt, the ship would drop like a plummet into the
depths, and by the time I reached the mouth of the abyss it would be
lost to my view forever.

And yet I struggled on, my lungs almost bursting from the exertion of my
mad efforts toward speed. Nah-ee-lah trailed far behind, for if either
of us could reach _The Barsoom_ in time we should both be saved, and I
could fly faster than Nah-ee-lah; otherwise, I should never have
separated myself from her by so much as a hundred yards.

Though my lungs were pumping like bellows, I venture to say that my
heart stood still for several seconds before I topped the crater’s rim.

At the same instant that I expected the last vestige of my hopes to be
dashed to pieces irrevocably and forever, I crossed the rim and beheld
_The Barsoom_ not twenty feet below me, just over the edge of the abyss,
and upon her deck stood West and Jay and Norton.

As I came into view directly above them, West whipped out his revolver
and leveled it at me, but the instant that his finger pressed the
trigger Norton sprang forward and struck his hand aside.

“My God, sir!” I heard the boy cry, “it is the Captain.” And then they
all recognized me, and an instant later I almost collapsed as I fell to
the deck of my beloved ship.

My first thought was of Nah-ee-lah, and at my direction _The Barsoom_
rose swiftly and moved to meet her.