II
                             THE HELLHOUNDS

I had just slipped off my tunic when I heard the baying of the
hellhounds close by. I thought they might be getting into the goat pen,
so I waited a moment, listening, and then I heard a scream—the scream
of a woman in terror. It sounded down by the river near the goat pens,
and mingled with it was the vicious growling and barking of the
hellhounds. I did not wait to listen longer; but seized my knife and a
long staff.

I ran out the front door, which was closest, and turned toward the pens
in the direction of the hellhounds’ deep growlings and the screams of
the woman, which were repeated twice.

As I neared the pens and my eyes became accustomed to the outer darkness
I made out what appeared to be a human figure resting partially upon the
top of one of the sheds that formed a portion of the pen wall. The legs
and lower body dangled over the edge of the roof and I could see three
or four hellhounds leaping for it, while another, that had evidently
gotten a hold, was hanging to one leg and attempting to drag the figure
down.

As I ran forward I shouted at the beasts, and those that were leaping
for the figure stopped and turned toward me. I knew something of the
temper of these animals and that I might expect them to charge, for they
were quite fearless of man ordinarily; but I ran forward toward them so
swiftly and with such determination that they turned, growling, and ran
off before I reached them; but not far.

The one that had hold of the figure succeeded in dragging it to earth
just before I reached them and then it discovered me and turned,
standing over its prey, with wide jaws and terrific fangs menacing me.
It was a huge beast, almost as large as a full grown goat, and easily a
match for several men as poorly armed as I. Under ordinary circumstances
I should have given it plenty of room; but what was I to do when the
life of a woman was at stake? I am an American, not a Kalkar—those
swine would throw a woman to the hellhounds to save their own skins—and
I had been brought up to revere woman in a world that considered her on
a par with the cow, the nanny and the sow, only less valuable since the
latter were not the common property of the state.

I knew then that death stood very near as I faced that frightful beast,
and from the corner of an eye I could see its mates creeping closer.
There was no time to think, even, and so I rushed in upon the hellhound
with my staff and blade. As I did so, I saw the wide and terrified eyes
of a young girl looking up at me from beneath the beast of prey. I had
not thought to desert her to her fate before; but after that single
glance I could not have done so had a thousand deaths confronted me.

As I was almost upon the beast it sprang for my throat, rising high upon
its hind feet and leaping straight as an arrow. My staff was useless and
so I dropped it, meeting the charge with my knife and a bare hand. By
luck the fingers of my left hand found the creature’s throat at the
first clutch; but the impact of his body against mine hurled me to the
ground beneath him and there, growling and struggling, he sought to
close those snapping fangs upon me. Holding his jaws at arm’s length I
struck at his breast with my blade, nor did I miss him once. The pain of
the wounds turned him crazy and yet, to my utter surprise, I found I
still could hold him and not that alone; but that I could also struggle
to my knees and then to my feet—still holding him at arm’s length in my
left hand.

I had always known that I was muscular; but until that moment I had
never dreamed of the great strength that Nature had given me, for never
before had I had occasion to exert the full measure of my powerful
thews. It was like a revelation from above, and of a sudden I found
myself smiling and in the instant a miracle occurred—all fear of these
hideous beasts dissolved from my brain like thin air and with it fear of
man as well. I, who had been brought out of a womb of fear into a world
of terror, who had been suckled and nurtured upon apprehension and
timidity—I, Julian 9th, at the age of twenty years, became in the
fraction of a second utterly fearless of man or beast. It was the
knowledge of my great power that did it—that and, perhaps, those two
liquid eyes that I knew to be watching me.

The other hounds were closing in upon me when the creature in my grasp
went suddenly limp. My blade must have found its heart. And then the
others charged and I saw the girl upon her feet beside me, my staff in
her hands, ready to battle with them.

“To the roof!” I shouted to her; but she did not heed. Instead, she
stood her ground, striking a vicious blow at the leader as he came
within range.

Swinging the dead beast above my head I hurled the carcass at the others
so that they scattered and retreated again, and then I turned to the
girl and without more parley lifted her in my arms and tossed her
lightly to the roof of the goat shed. I could easily have followed to
her side and safety had not something filled my brain with an effect
similar to that which I imagine must be produced by the vile concoction
brewed by the Kalkars and which they drink to excess, while it would
mean imprisonment for us to be apprehended with it in our possession. At
least, I know that I felt a sudden exhilaration—a strange desire to
accomplish wonders before the eyes of this stranger, and so I turned
upon the four remaining hellhounds who had now bunched to renew the
attack and without waiting for them, I rushed toward them. They did not
flee, but stood their ground, growling hideously, their hair bristling
upon their necks and along their spines, their great fangs bared and
slavering; but among them I tore and by the very impetuosity of my
attack I overthrew them. The first sprang to meet me and him I seized by
the neck and clamping his body between my knees I twisted his head
entirely around until I heard the vertebrae snap. The other three were
upon me then, leaping and tearing; but I felt no fear. One by one I took
them in my mighty hands and lifting them high above my head hurled them
violently from me. Two only of the hellhounds returned to the attack,
and these I vanquished with my bare hands, disdaining to use my blade
upon such carrion.

It was then that I saw a man running toward me from up the river and
another from our house. The first was Jim, who had heard the commotion
and the girl’s screams, and the other was my father. Both had seen the
last part of the battle and neither could believe that it was I, Julian,
who had done this thing. Father was very proud of me and Jim was, too,
for he had always said that having no son of his own, Father must share
me with him.

And then I turned toward the girl who had slipped from the roof and was
approaching us. She moved with the same graceful dignity that was
Mother’s—not at all like the clumsy clods that belonged to the Kalkars,
and she came straight to me and laid a hand upon my arm.

“Thank you,” she said, “and God bless you! Only a very brave and
powerful man could have done what you have done.”

And then, all of a sudden, I did not feel brave at all, but very weak
and silly, for all I could do was finger my blade and look at the
ground. It was Father who spoke and the interruption helped to dispel my
embarrassment.

“Who are you?” he asked, “and from where do you come? It is strange to
find a young woman wandering about alone at night; but stranger still to
hear one who dares invoke the forbidden Deity.”

I had not realized until then that she had used His name; but when I did
recall it I could not but glance apprehensively about to see if any
others might be around who could have heard. Father and Jim I knew to be
safe; for there was a common tie between our families that lay in the
secret religious rites we held once each month. Since that hideous day
that had befallen even before my father’s birth—that day, which none
dared mention above a whisper, when the clergy of every denomination, to
the last man, had been murdered by order of The Twentyfour, it had been
a capital crime to worship God in any form, whatsoever.

We took the girl to the house, and when my mother saw her and how young
and beautiful she was and took her in her arms, the child broke down and
sobbed and clung to Mother, nor could either speak for some time. In the
light of the candle I saw that the stranger was of wondrous beauty. I
have said that my mother was the most beautiful woman I had ever seen,
and such is the truth; but this girl who had come so suddenly among us
was the most beautiful girl. She was about nineteen, delicately molded
and yet without weakness. There were strength and vitality apparent in
every move she made as well as in the expression of her face, her
gestures and her manner of speech. She was girlish, and at the same time
filled one with an impression of great reserve strength of mind and
character. She was very brown, showing exposure to the sun, yet her skin
was clear—almost translucent. Her garb was similar to mine—the common
garmenture of people of our class, both men and women. She wore the
tunic and breeches and boots just as Mother and Mollie and the rest of
us did; but somehow there was a difference—I had never before realized
what a really beautiful costume it was. The band about her forehead was
wider than was generally worn and upon it were sewn numerous tiny
shells, set close together and forming a pattern—it was her only
attempt at ornamentation; but even so it was quite noticeable in a world
where women strove to make themselves plain rather than beautiful—some
going even so far as to permanently disfigure their faces and those of
their female offspring, while others, many, many others, killed the
latter in infancy. Mollie had done so with two. No wonder that grown-ups
never laughed and seldom smiled!

When the girl had quieted her sobs on Mother’s breast, Father renewed
his questioning; but Mother said to wait until morning, that the girl
was tired and unstrung and needed sleep, and then came the question of
where she was to sleep. Father said that he would sleep in the living
room with me and that the stranger could sleep with Mother; but Jim
suggested that she come home with him as he and Mollie had three rooms,
as did we, and no one to occupy his living room; and so it was arranged,
although I would rather have had her remain with us.

At first she rather shrank from going, until Mother told her that Jim
and Mollie were good, kind-hearted people and that she would be as safe
with them as with her own father and mother. At mention of her parents
the tears came to her eyes and she turned impulsively toward my mother
and kissed her, after which she told Jim that she was ready to accompany
him.

She started to say good-bye to me and to thank me again; but, having
found my tongue at last, I told her that I would go with them as far as
Jim’s house. This appeared to please her and so we set forth. Jim walked
ahead and I followed with the girl, and on the way I discovered a very
strange thing. Father had shown me a piece of iron once that pulled
smaller bits of iron to it. He said that it was a magnet. This slender,
stranger girl was certainly no piece of iron, nor was I a smaller bit of
anything; but nevertheless, I could not keep away from her. I cannot
explain it—however wide the way was, I was always drawn over close to
her, so that our arms touched and once our hands swung together and the
strangest and most delicious thrill ran through me that I had ever
experienced.

I used to think that Jim’s house was a long way from ours—when I had to
carry things over there as a boy; but that night it was far too
close—just a step or two and we were there.

Mollie heard us coming and was at the door, full of questionings, and
when she saw the girl and heard a part of our story she reached out and
took the girl to her bosom, just as Mother had. Before they took her in,
the stranger turned and held out her hand to me.

“Good night,” she said, “and thank you again, and once more, may God,
our Father, bless and preserve you.”

And I heard Mollie murmur: “The Saints be praised!” And then I turned
homeward, treading on air.