VIII
                         I HORSEWHIP AN OFFICER

We passed days of mental anguish—hearing nothing, knowing nothing—and
then one evening a single Kash Guard rode up to Father’s house. Juana
and I were there with Mother. The fellow dismounted and knocked at the
door—a most unusual courtesy from one of these. He entered at my
bidding and stood there a moment looking at Mother. He was only a lad—a
big, overgrown boy, and there was neither cruelty in his eyes nor the
mark of the beast in any of his features. His mother’s blood evidently
predominated, and he was unquestionably not all Kalkar. Presently he
spoke.

“Which is Julian 8th’s woman?” he asked; but he looked at Mother as
though he already guessed.

“I am,” said Mother.

The lad shuffled his feet and caught his breath—it was like a stifled
sob.

“I am sorry,” he said, “that I bring you such sad news,” and then we
guessed that the worst had happened.

“The mines?” Mother asked him, and he nodded affirmatively.

“Ten years!” he exclaimed, as one might announce a sentence of death,
for such it was. “He never had a chance,” he volunteered. “It was a
terrible thing. They are beasts!”

I could not but show my surprise that a Kash Guard should speak so of
his own kind, and he must have seen it in my face.

“We are not all beasts,” he hastened to exclaim.

I commenced to question him then and I found that he had been a sentry
at the door during the trial and had heard it all. There had been but
one witness—the man who had informed on Father, and Father had been
given no chance to make any defense.

I asked him who the informer was.

“I am not sure of the name,” he replied; “he was a tall,
stoop-shouldered man. I think I heard him called Peter.”

But I had known even before I asked. I looked at Mother and saw that she
was dry-eyed and that her mouth had suddenly hardened into a firmness of
expression such as I had never dreamed it could assume.

“Is that all?” she asked.

“No,” replied the youth, “it is not. I am instructed to notify you that
you have thirty days to take another man, or vacate these premises,” and
then he took a step toward Mother. “I am sorry, Madam,” he said. “It is
very cruel; but what are we to do? It becomes worse each day. Now they
are grinding down even the Kash Guard, so that there are many of us
who—;” but he stopped suddenly as though realizing that he was on the
point of speaking treason to strangers, and turning on his heel he quit
the house and a moment later was galloping away.

I expected Mother to break down then; but she did not. She was very
brave; but there was a new and terrible expression in her eyes—those
eyes that had shone forth always with love. Now they were bitter,
hate-filled eyes. She did not weep—I wish to God she had. Instead she
did that which I had never known her to do before—she laughed aloud.
Upon the slightest pretext, or upon no pretext at all, she laughed. We
were afraid for her.

The suggestion dropped by the Kash Guard started in my mind a train of
thought of which I spoke to Mother and Juana, and after that Mother
seemed more normal for a while, as though I had aroused hope, however
feeble, where there had been no hope before. I pointed out that if the
Kash Guard was dissatisfied, the time was ripe for revolution, for if we
could get only a part of them to join us there would surely be enough of
us to overthrow those who remained loyal to The Flag. Then we would
liberate all prisoners and set up a republic of our own such as the
ancients had had.

It took time to develop my plan. I talked with everyone I could trust
and found them all willing to join me when we had enough. In the
meantime, I cared for my own place and Father’s as well—I was very busy
and time flew rapidly.

About a month after Father was taken away, I came home one day with
Juana who had accompanied me up-river in search of a goat that had
strayed. We had found its carcass, or rather its bones, where the
hellhounds had left them. Mother was not at our house, where she now
spent most of her time, so I went over to Father’s to get her. As I
approached the door I heard sounds of an altercation and scuffling that
made me cover the few remaining yards at a rapid run.

Without waiting to knock, as Mother had taught me always to do, I burst
into the living room to discover Mother in the clutches of Peter
Johansen. She was trying to fight him off; but he was forcing her slowly
toward her bedroom, for he was a large and powerful man. He heard me
just as I leaped for him and turning, grappled with me. He tried to hold
me off with one hand then while he drew his knife; but I struck him in
the face with one fist and knocked him from me, way across the room. He
was up again in an instant, bleeding from nose and mouth, and back at me
with his knife in his hand, slashing furiously. Again I struck him and
knocked him down and when he arose and came again I seized his
knife-hand and tore the weapon from him. He had no slightest chance
against me, and he saw it soon, for he commenced to back away and beg
for mercy.

“Kill him, Julian,” said Mother; “kill the murderer of your father.”

I did not need her appeal to influence me, for the moment that I had
seen Peter there I knew my long awaited time had come to kill him. He
commenced to cry then—great tears ran down his cheeks and he bolted for
the door and tried to escape. It was my pleasure to play with him as a
cat plays with a mouse.

I kept him from the door, seizing him and hurling him bodily across the
room, and then I let him reach the window, through which he tried to
crawl—and I permitted him to get so far that he thought he was about to
escape and then I seized him again and dragged him back to the floor and
lifting him to his feet I made him fight.

I struck him lightly in the face many times and then I laid him on his
back across the table and kneeling on his chest I spoke to him, softly.

“You had my friend, old Samuels, murdered and my father, too, and now
you come to befoul my mother. What did you expect, swine, but this? Have
you no intelligence? You must have known that I would kill you—speak!”

“They said that they would get you today,” he whimpered. “They lied to
me. They went back on me. They told me that you would be in the pen at
the barracks before noon. Damn them, they lied to me!”

So! that was how it was, eh? And the lucky circumstance of the strayed
goat had saved me to avenge my father and succor my mother; but they
would come yet. I must hurry or they might come before I was through,
and so I took his head between my hands and bent his neck far back over
the edge of the table until I heard his spine part—and that was the end
of the vilest traitor who ever lived—one who professed friendship
openly and secretly conspired to ruin us. In broad daylight I carried
his body to the river and threw it in. I was past caring what they knew.
They were coming for me and they would have their way with me whether
they had any pretext or not; but they would have to pay a price for me,
that I determined, and I got my knife and strapped it in its scabbard
about my waist beneath my shirt; but they did not come—they had lied to
Peter just as they lie to everyone.

The next day was market day and tax day, so I went to market with the
necessary goats and produce to make my trades and pay my taxes. As Soor
passed around the market place making his collections, or rather his
levies, for we had to deliver the stuff to his place ourselves, I saw
from the excited conversation of those in his wake that he was spreading
alarm and consternation among the people of the commune.

I wondered what it might all be about, nor had I long to wait to
discover, for he soon reached me. He could neither read nor write; but
he had a form furnished by the government upon which were numbers that
the agents were taught how to read and which stood for various classes
of produce, livestock and manufactures. In columns beneath these numbers
he made marks during the month for the amounts of my trades in each
item—it was all crude, of course, and inaccurate; but as they always
overcharged us and then added something to make up for any errors they
might have made to our credit, the government was satisfied, even if we
were not.

Being able to read and write, as well as to figure, I always knew to a
dot just what was due from me in tax and I always had an argument with
Soor, from which Government emerged victorious every time.

This month I should have owed him one goat, but he demanded three.

“How is that?” I asked.

“Under the old rate you owed me the equivalent of a goat and a half; but
since the tax had been doubled under the new law you owe me three
goats.” Then it was I knew the cause of the excitement in other parts of
the market place.

“How do you expect us to live if you take everything from us?” I asked.

“The government does not care whether you live or not,” he replied, “as
long as you pay taxes while you do live.”

“I will pay the three goats,” I said, “because I have to; but next
market day I will bring you a present of the hardest cheese I can find.”

He did not say anything, for he was afraid of me unless he was
surrounded by Kash Guards; but he looked ugly.

The commander of the Kash Guard company must have noticed the crowd
around us, for he rode straight toward me, alone. I would not give him
the satisfaction of thinking that I feared him and so I stood there
waiting.

The officer reined in before me.

“What are you doing here?” he barked.

“Minding my own business, as you had better do,” I replied.

“You swine are becoming insufferable,” he cried. “Get to your pen, where
you belong—I will stand for no mobs and no insolence.”

I just stood there looking at him; but there was murder in my heart. He
loosened the bull-hide whip that hung at the pommel of his saddle.

“You have to be driven, do you?” He was livid with sudden anger and his
voice almost a scream. Then he struck at me—a vicious blow—with the
heavy whip—struck at my face. I dodged the lash and seized it,
wrenching it from his puny grasp and then I caught his bridle and though
his horse plunged and fought, I lashed the rider with all my strength a
dozen times, before he tumbled from the saddle to the trampled earth of
the market place.

Then his men were upon me and I went down from a blow on the head. They
bound my hands while I was unconscious and then hustled me roughly into
a saddle. I was half dazed during the awful ride that ensued—we rode to
the military prison at the barracks and all the way that fiend of a
captain rode beside me and lashed me with his bull-hide whip.