VII
                                BETHELDA

“Well!” I exclaimed; “why have you not flown?”

“And where?” she demanded.

“Back to your Kalkar friends,” I replied.

“It is because you are not a Kalkar that I did not fly,” she said.

“How do you know that I am no Kalkar,” I demanded, “and why, if I am
not, should you not fly from me, who must be an enemy of your people?”

“You called him ‘Kalkar’ as you charged him,” she explained, “and one
Kalkar does not call another Kalkar that. Neither am I a Kalkar.”

I thought then of what the Or-tis had told me of the thousand Americans
who had wished to desert the Kalkars and join themselves with us. This
girl must be of them, then.

“Who are you?” I asked.

“My name is Bethelda,” she replied; “and who are you?”

She looked me squarely in the eyes with a fearless frankness that was
anything but Kalkarian. It was the first time that I had had a good look
at her. By The Flag! She was not difficult to look at. She had large,
gray-green eyes and heavy lashes and a cheerful countenance that seemed
even now to be upon the verge of laughter. There was something almost
boyish about her and yet she was all girl. I stood looking at her for so
long a time without speaking that a frown of impatience clouded her
brow.

“I asked you who you are,” she reminded me.

“I am Julian 20th, The Red Hawk,” I replied, and I thought for an
instant that her eyes went a little wider and that she looked
frightened; but I must have been mistaken, for I was to learn later that
it took more than a name to frighten Bethelda. “Tell me where you are
going,” I said, “and I will ride with you, lest you be again attacked.”

“I do not know where to go,” she replied, “for wherever I go I meet
enemies.”

“Where are your people?” I demanded.

“I fear that they are all slain,” she told me, a quiver in her voice.

“But where were you going? You must have been going somewhere.”

“I was looking for a place to hide,” she said. “The Nipons would let me
stay with them if I could find them. My people were always kind to them.
They would be kind to me.”

“Your people were of the Kalkars, even though you say you are no Kalkar,
and the Nipons hate them. They would not take you in.”

“My people were Americans. They lived among the Kalkars, but they were
not Kalkars. We lived at the foot of these hills for almost a hundred
years and we often met the Nipons. They did not hate us, though they
hated the Kalkars about us.”

“Do you know Saku?” I asked.

“Since I was a little child I have known Saku, the Chief,” she replied.

“Come, then,” I said, “I will take you to Saku.”

“You know him? He is near?”

“Yes, come!”

She followed me down the trail up which I had so recently come and
though I begrudged the time that it delayed me, I was glad that I might
have her off my hands so easily and so quickly, for, of a certainty, I
could not leave her alone and unprotected, nor could I take her upon my
long journey with me, even could I have prevailed upon my people to
accept her.

In less than an hour we came upon Saku’s new camp, and the little people
were surprised indeed to see me, and overjoyed when they discovered
Bethelda, more than assuring me by their actions that the girl had been
far from stating the real measure of the esteem in which the Nipons held
her. When I would have turned to ride away they insisted that I remain
until morning, pointing out to me that the day was already far gone and
that being unfamiliar with the trails I might easily become lost and
thus lose more time than I would gain. The girl stood listening to our
conversation, and when I at last insisted that I must go because, having
no knowledge of the trails anyway, I would be as well off by night as by
day, she offered to guide me.

“I know the valley from end to end,” she said. “Tell me where you would
go and I will lead you there as well by night as by day.”

“But how would you return?” I asked.

“If you are going to your people perhaps they would let me remain, for
am I not an American, too?”

I shook my head. “I am afraid that they would not,” I told her. “We feel
very bitterly toward all Americans that cast their lot with the
Kalkars—even more bitterly than we feel toward the Kalkars themselves.”

“I did not cast my lot with the Kalkars,” she said, proudly. “I have
hated them always—since I was old enough to hate. If four hundred years
ago my people chose to do a wicked thing is it any fault of mine? I am
as much an American as you, and I hate the Kalkars more because I know
them better.”

“My people would not reason that way,” I said. “The women would set the
hounds on you and you would be torn to pieces.” She shivered.

“You are as terrible as the Kalkars,” she said, bitterly.

“You forget the generations of humiliation and suffering that we have
endured because of the renegade Americans who brought the Kalkar curse
upon us,” I reminded her.

“We have suffered, too,” she said, “and we are as innocent as you,” and
then, suddenly, she looked me squarely in the eyes. “How do you feel
about it? Do you, too, hate me worse than as though I were a Kalkar? You
saved my life, perhaps. You could do that for one you hate?”

“You are a girl,” I reminded her, “and I am an American—a Julian,” I
added, proudly.

“You saved me only because I am a girl?” she insisted.

I nodded.

“You are a strange people,” she said, “that you could be so brave and
generous to one you hate and yet refuse the simpler kindness of
forgiveness—forgiveness of a sin that we did not commit.”

I recalled the Or-tis, who had spoken similarly, and I wondered if,
perhaps, they might not be right, but we are a proud people and for
generations before my day our pride had been ground beneath the heel of
the victorious Kalkar. Even yet the wound was still raw. And we are a
stubborn people—stubborn in our loves and our hatreds. Already had I
regretted my friendliness with the Or-tis, and now I was having amicable
dealings with another Kalkar—it was difficult for me to think of them
as other than Kalkars. I should be hating this one—I should have hated
the Or-tis—but for some reason I found it not so easy to hate them.

Saku had been listening to our conversation, a portion of which at least
he must have understood. “Wait until morning,” he said, “and then she
can at least go with you as far as the top of the hills and point out
the way for you; but you will be wise to take her with you. She knows
every trail, and it will be better for her to go with you to your own
people. She is not Kalkar, and if they catch her they will kill her.
Were she Kalkar we would hate her and chase her away; but though she is
welcome among us it would be hard for her to remain. We move camp often,
and often our trails lead where one so large as she might have
difficulty in following, nor would she have a man to hunt for her, and
there are times when we have to go without food because we cannot find
enough even for our own little people.”

“I will wait until morning,” I said, “but I cannot take her with me—my
people would kill her.”

I had two motives in remaining over night. One was to go forth early in
the morning and kill game for the little Nipons in payment for their
hospitality and the other was to avail myself of the girl’s knowledge of
the trails, which she could point out from some lofty hill top. I had
only a general idea of the direction in which to search for my people
and as I had seen from the summit that the valley beyond was entirely
surrounded by hills, I realized that I might gain time by waiting until
morning, when the girl should be able to point out the route to the
proper pass to my destination.

After the evening meal that night I kept up a fire for the girl, as the
air was chill and she was not warmly clad. The little people had only
their tents and a few skins for their own protection, nor was there room
in the former for the girl, so already overcrowded were they. The Nipons
retired to their rude shelters almost immediately after eating, leaving
the girl and me alone. She huddled close to the fire and she looked very
forlorn and alone. I could not help but feel sorry for her.

“Your people are all gone?” I asked.

“My own people—my father, my mother, my three brothers—all are dead, I
think,” she replied. “My mother and father I know are dead. She died
when I was a little girl. Six months ago my father was killed by the
Kalkars. My three brothers and I scattered, for we heard that they were
coming to kill us, also. I have heard that they captured my brothers;
but I am not sure. They have been killing many in the valley lately, for
here dwell nearly all the pure descendants of Americans, and those of us
who were thought to favor the true Or-tis were marked for slaughter by
the false Or-tis.

“I had been hiding in the home of a friend of my father, but I knew that
if I were found there, it would bring death to him and his family, and
so I came away, hoping to find a place where I might be safe from them;
but I guess there is no place for me—even my friends, the Nipons,
though they would let me stay with them, admit that it would be a
hardship to provide for me.”

“What will you do?” I asked. Somehow I felt very sorry for her.

“I shall find some nearly inaccessible place in the hills and build
myself a shelter,” she replied.

“But you cannot live here in the hills alone,” I remonstrated.

She shrugged her shoulders. “Where may I live, then?”

“For a little while, perhaps,” I suggested, “until the Kalkars are
driven into the sea.”

“Who will drive them into the sea?” she asked.

“We,” I replied, proudly.

“And if you do, how much better off shall I be? Your people will set
their hounds upon me—you have said so yourself. But you will not drive
the Kalkars into the sea. You have no conception of their numbers. All
up and down the coast, days’ journeys north and south, wherever there is
a fertile valley, they have bred like flies. For days they have been
coming from all directions, marching toward The Capital. I do not know
why they congregate now, nor why only the warriors come. Are they
threatened, do you think?” A sudden thought seemed to burst upon her.
“It cannot be,” she exclaimed, “that the Yanks have attacked them! Have
your people come out of the desert again?”

“Yes,” I replied. “Yesterday we attacked their great camp—today my
warriors must have eaten their evening meal in the stone tents of the
Kalkars.”

“You mean The Capital?”

“Yes.”

“Your forces have reached The Capital? It seems incredible. Never before
have you come so far. You have a great army?”

“Twenty-five thousand warriors marched down out of the desert beneath
The Flag,” I told her, “and we drove the Kalkars from the pass of the
ancients back to The Capital, as you call their great camp.”

“You lost many warriors? You must have.”

“Many fell,” I replied; “thousands.”

“Then you are not twenty-five thousand now, and the Kalkars are like
ants. Kill them and more will come. They will wear you down until your
few survivors will be lucky if they can escape back to their desert.”

“You do not know us,” I told her. “We have brought our women, our
children, our flocks and herds down into the orange groves of the
Kalkars and there we shall remain. If we cannot drive the Kalkars into
the sea today we shall have to wait until tomorrow. It has taken us
three hundred years to drive them this far, but in all that time we have
never given back a step that we have once gained—we have never
retreated from any position to which we have brought our families and
our stock.”

“You have a large family?” she asked.

“I have no wife,” I replied as I rose to add fuel to the fire. As I
returned with a handful of sticks I saw that she hugged closer to the
blaze and that she shivered with the cold. I removed my Kalkar robe and
threw it across her shoulders.

“No!” she cried, rising; “I cannot take it. You will be cold.” She held
it out toward me.

“Keep it,” I said. “The night will be cold, and you cannot go until
morning without covering.”

She shook her head. “No!” she repeated. “I cannot accept favors from an
enemy who hates me.” She stood there, holding the red robe out toward
me. Her chin was high and her expression haughty.

I stepped forward and took the robe, and as her hand dropped to her side
I threw the woolen garment about her once more and held it there upon
her slim figure. She tried to pull away from it, but my arm was about
her, holding the robe in place, and as I guessed her intention, I
pressed the garment more closely around her, which drew her to me until
we stood face to face, her body pressed against mine. As I looked down
into her upturned face our eyes met and for a moment we stood there as
though turned to stone. I do not know what happened. Her eyes, wide and
half frightened, looked up into mine, her lips were parted and she
caught her breath once in what was almost a sob. Just for an instant we
stood thus and then her eyes dropped and she bent her head and turned it
half away and at the same time her muscles relaxed and she went almost
limp in my arms. Very gently I lowered her to her seat beside the fire
and adjusted the robe about her. Something had happened to me. I did not
know what it was, but of a sudden nothing seemed to matter so much in
all the world as the comfort and safety of Bethelda.

In silence I sat down opposite her and looked at her as though I never
before had laid eyes upon her, and well might it have been that I never
had, for, by The Flag! I had not seen her before, or else, like some of
the tiny lizards of the desert, she had the power to change her
appearance as they change their colors, for this was not the same girl
to whom I had been talking a moment since—this was a new and wonderful
creature of a loveliness beyond all compare. No, I did not know what had
happened, nor did I care—I just sat there and devoured her with my
eyes. And then she looked up and spoke four words that froze my heart in
my bosom.

She looked up and her eyes were dull and filled with pain. Something had
happened to her, too—I could see it. She was changed.

“I am an Or-tis,” she said and dropped her head again.

I could not speak. I just sat there staring at the slender little figure
of my blood enemy sitting, dejected, in the firelight. After a long time
she lay down beside the fire and slept, and I suppose that I must have
slept, too, for once, when I opened my eyes, the fire was out, I was
almost frozen, and the light of a new day was breaking over rugged hill
tops to the east.

I arose and rekindled the fire. After that I would get Red Lightning and
ride away before she awakened; but when I had found him, feeding a short
distance from the camp, I did not mount and ride away, but came back to
the camp again—why, I do not know. I did not want to see her again
ever, yet something drew me to her. She was awake and standing looking
all about, up and down the canyon, when I first saw her and I was sure
that there was an expression of relief in her eyes when she discovered
me. She smiled wistfully, and I could not be hard, as I should have been
to a blood enemy.

I was friendly with her brother, I thought—why should I not be friendly
with her? Of course, I shall go away and not see her again, but at least
I may be pleasant to her while I remain. Thus I argued and thus I acted.

“Good morning,” I said, as I approached; “how are you?”

“Splendid!” she replied. “And how are you?” Her tones were rich and
mellow and her eyes intoxicated me like old wine. Oh, why was she an
enemy?

The Nipons came from their little tents. The naked children scampered
around, playing with the dogs, in an attempt to get warm. The women
built the fires around which the men huddled while their mates prepared
the morning meal.

After we had eaten, I took Red Lightning and started off down the canyon
to hunt and although I was dubious as to what results I should achieve
with the heavy Kalkar bow, I did better than I had expected, for I got
two bucks, although the chase carried me much farther from camp than I
had intended going.

The morning must have been half spent as Red Lightning toiled up the
canyon trail beneath the weight of the two carcasses and myself to the
camp. I noticed that he seemed nervous as we approached, keeping his
ears pricked forward and occasionally snorting, but I had no idea of the
cause of his perturbation and was only the more on the alert myself, as
I always am when warned by Red Lightning’s actions that something may be
amiss.

And when I came to the camp site I did not wonder that he had been
aroused, for his keen nostrils had scented tragedy long before my dull
senses could become aware of it. The happy, peaceful camp was no more.
The little tents lay flat upon the ground and near them the corpses of
two of my tiny friends—two little, naked warriors. That was all.
Silence and desolation brooded where there had been life and happiness a
few short hours before. Only the dead remained.

Bethelda! What had become of her? What had happened? Who had done this
cruel thing? There was but a single answer—the Kalkars must have
discovered this little camp and rushed it. The Nipons that had not been
killed doubtless escaped, and the Kalkars had carried Bethelda away, a
captive.

Suddenly I saw red. Casting the carcasses of the bucks to the ground I
put spurs to Red Lightning and set out up the trail where the fresh
imprint of horses’ hoofs pointed the direction in which the murderers
had gone. There were the tracks of several horses in the trail and among
them one huge imprint fully twice the size of the dainty imprint of Red
Lightning’s shoe. While the feet of all the Kalkar horses are large this
was by far the largest I had ever seen. From the signs of the trail I
judged that not less than twenty horses were in the party and while at
first I had ridden impetuously in pursuit, presently my better judgment
warned me that I could best serve Bethelda through strategy, since it
was obvious that one man could not, single-handed, overthrow a score of
warriors by force alone.

And now, therefore, I went more warily, though had I been of a mind to
do so, I doubt that I could have much abated my speed, for there was a
force that drove me on and if I let my mind dwell long on the
possibility of the dangers confronting Bethelda I forgot strategy and
cunning and all else save brute force and blood. Vengeance! It is of my
very marrow, bred into me through generations that have followed its
emblem, The Flag, westward along its bloody trail toward the sea.
Vengeance and The Flag and The Julian—they are one. And here was I,
Lord of Vengeance, Great Chief of the Julians, Protector of The Flag,
riding hot-foot to save or avenge a daughter of the Or-tis! I should
have flushed for shame, but I did not. Never had my blood surged so hot
even to the call of The Flag. Could it be, then, that there was
something greater than The Flag? No, that I could not admit; but
possibly I had found something that imparted to The Flag a greater
meaning for me.