IV
                         A FIGHT ON MARKET DAY

When the door had closed upon them, Juana buried her face in her hands.

“Oh, what misery I bring everywhere,” she sobbed. “To my father and
mother I brought death and now to you all and to Jim and Mollie I am
bringing ruin and perhaps death also. But it shall not be—you shall not
suffer for me! He looked straight at you, Julian, when he made his
threat. What could he mean to do? You have done nothing. But you need
not fear. I know how I may undo the harm I have so innocently done.”

We tried to assure her that we did not care—that we would protect her
as best we could and that she must not feel that she had brought any
greater burden upon us than we already carried; but she only shook her
head and at last asked me to take her home to Mollie’s.

She was very quiet all the way back, though I did my best to cheer her
up.

“He cannot make you work for him,” I insisted. “Even The Twentyfour,
rotten as it is, would never dare enforce such an order. We are not yet
entirely slaves.”

“But I am afraid that he will find a way,” she replied, “through you, my
friend. I saw him look at you and it was a very ugly look.”

“I do not fear,” I said.

“I fear for you. No, it shall not be!” She spoke with such vehement
finality that she almost startled me, and then she bade me good night
and went in to Mollie’s house and closed the door.

All the way back home I was much worried about her, for I did not like
to see her unhappy.

As I approached the house I saw that the candle was still burning in the
living room—I had left so hurriedly that I had given it no thought—and
as I came closer I saw something else, too. I was walking very slowly,
and in the soft dust of the pathway my soft boots made no sound, or I
might not have seen what I did see—two figures, close in the shadow of
the wall, peering through one of our little windows into the living
room.

I crept stealthily forward until I was close enough to see that one was
in the uniform of a Kash Guard while the other was clothed as are those
of my class, and in the latter I recognized the stoop-shouldered, lanky
figure of Peter Johansen. I was not at all surprised at this
confirmation of my suspicions.

I knew what they were there for—hoping to learn the secret hiding place
of The Flag—but I also knew that unless they already knew it, there was
no danger of their discovering it from the outside since The Flag had
been removed from its hiding place. So I hid and watched them for
awhile, and then circled the house and entered from the front as though
I did not know they were there, for it would never do to let them know
that they had been discovered.

Taking off my clothes I went to bed, after putting out the candle. I do
not know how long they remained—it was enough to know that we were
being watched, and though it was not pleasant I was glad that we were
forewarned. In the morning I told Father and Mother what I had seen.
Mother sighed and shook her head.

“It is coming,” she said. “I always knew that sooner or later it would
come. One by one they get us—now it is our turn.”

It was market day, and I went in with a few wethers, some hides and
cheese. Father did not come along—in fact, I advised him not to as Soor
would be there and also Hoffmeyer. One cheese I took as tribute to Soor.
God, how I hated to do it! But both Mother and Father thought it best to
propitiate the fellow, and I suppose they were right. A lifetime of
suffering does not incline one to seek further trouble.

The market place was full, for I was a little late. There were many Kash
Guards in evidence—more than usual. It was a warm day—the first really
warm day we had had—and a number of men were sitting beneath a canopy
at one side of the market place in front of Hoffmeyer’s office. As I
approached I saw that Or-tis was there, as well as Pthav the coal baron,
and Hoffmeyer of course, with several others, including some Kalkar
women and children. I recognized Pthav’s woman—a renegade Yank who had
gone to him willingly—and their little child, a girl of about six. The
latter was playing in the dust in front of the canopy some hundred feet
from the group, and I had scarcely recognized her when I saw that which
made my heart almost stop beating for an instant.

Two men were driving a small bunch of cattle into the market place upon
the other side of the canopy when suddenly I saw one of the creatures, a
great bull, break away from the herd and with lowered head charge toward
the tiny figure playing, unconscious of danger, in the dust. The men
tried to head the beast off but their efforts were futile. Those under
the canopy saw the child’s danger at the same time that I did, and they
rose and cried aloud in warning. Pthav’s woman shrieked and Or-tis
yelled lustily for the Kash Guard; but none hastened in the path of the
infuriated beast to the rescue of the child.

I was the closest to her and the moment that I saw her danger I started
forward; but even as I ran, there passed through my brain some terrible
thoughts. She is Kalkar! She is the spawn of the beast Pthav and of the
woman who turned traitor to her kind to win ease and comfort and safety!
Many a little life has been snuffed out because of her father and his
class! Would they save a sister or a daughter of mine!

I thought all these things as I ran; but I did not stop
running—something within impelled me to her aid. It must have been
simply that she was a little child and I the descendant of American
gentlemen. No, I kept right on in the face of the fact that my sense of
justice cried out that I let the child die.

I reached her just a moment before the bull did and when he saw me there
between him and the child he stopped, and with his head down he pawed
the earth, throwing clouds of dust about, and bellowed—and then he came
for me; but I met him half way, determined to hold him off until the
child escaped, if it were humanly possible for me to do so. He was a
huge beast and quite evidently a vicious one, which possibly explained
the reason for bringing him to market, and altogether it seemed to me
that he would make short work of me; but I meant to die fighting.

I called to the little girl to run and then the bull and I came
together. I seized his horns as he attempted to toss me and I exerted
all the strength in my young body. I had thought that I had let the
hellhounds feel it all that other night; but now I knew that I had yet
more in reserve, for to my astonishment I held that great beast and
slowly, very slowly, I commenced to twist his head to the left.

He struggled and fought and bellowed—I could feel the muscles of my
back and arms and legs hardening to the strain that was put upon them;
but almost from the first instant I knew that I was master. The Kash
Guards were coming now, on the run and I could hear Or-tis shouting to
them to shoot the bull; but before they reached me I gave the animal a
final mighty wrench so that he went down first upon one knee and then
over on his side and there I held him until a sergeant came and put a
bullet through his head.

When he was quite dead Or-tis and Pthav and the others approached—I saw
them coming as I was returning to my wethers, my skins and my cheese.
Or-tis called to me, and I turned and stood looking at him, as I had no
mind to have any business with any of them that I could avoid.

“Come here, my man,” he called.

I moved sullenly toward him a few paces and stopped again.

“What do you want of me?” I asked.

“Who are you?” He was eyeing me closely now. “I never saw such strength
in any man. You should be in the Kash Guard. How would you like that?”

“I would not like it,” I replied. It was about then, I guess, that he
recognized me, for his eyes hardened. “No,” he said, “we do not want
such as you among loyal men.” He turned upon his heel; but immediately
wheeled toward me again. “See to it, young man,” he snapped, “that you
use that strength of yours wisely and in good causes.”

“I shall use it wisely,” I replied, “and in the best of causes.”

I think Pthav’s woman had intended to thank me for saving her child, and
perhaps Pthav had, too, for they had both come toward me; but when they
saw Or-tis’ evident hostility toward me, they turned away, for which I
was thankful. I saw Soor looking on with a sneer on his lips and
Hoffmeyer eyeing me with that cunning expression of his.

I gathered up my produce and proceeded to that part of the market place
where we habitually showed that which we had to sell, only to find that
a man named Vonbulen was there ahead of me. Now there is an unwritten
law that each family has its own place in the market. I was the third
generation of Julians who had brought produce to this spot—formerly
horses mostly, for we were a family of horsemen; but more recently
goats, since the government had taken over the horse industry. Though
Father and I still broke horses occasionally for The Twentyfour, we did
not own or raise them any more.

Vonbulen had had a little pen in a far corner, where trade was not so
brisk as it usually was in our section, and I could not understand what
he was doing in ours, where he had three or four scrub pigs and a few
sacks of grain. Approaching, I asked him why he was there.

“This is my pen now,” he said. “Tax collector Soor told me to use it.”

“You will get out of it,” I replied. “You know that it is ours—everyone
in the teivos knows that it is and has been for many years. My
grandfather built it and my family have kept it in repair. You will get
out!”

“I will not get out,” he replied truculently. He was a very large man
and when he was angry he looked quite fierce, as he had large mustaches
which he brushed upward on either side of his nose—like the tusks of
one of his boars.

“You will get out or be thrown out,” I told him; but he put his hand on
the gate and attempted to bar my entrance.

Knowing him to be heavy minded and stupid I thought to take him by
surprise, nor did I fail, as, with a hand upon the topmost rail, I
vaulted the gate full in his face and letting my knees strike his chest
I sent him tumbling backward into the filth of his swine. So hard I
struck him that he turned a complete back somersault, and as he
scrambled to his feet, his lips foul with oaths, I saw murder in his
eye. And how he charged me! It was for all the world like the charge of
the great bull I had just vanquished, except that I think that Vonbulen
was angrier than the bull and not so good looking.

His great fists were flailing about in a most terrifying manner, and his
mouth was open just as though he intended eating me alive; but for some
reason I felt no fear. In fact, I had to smile to see his face and his
fierce mustache smeared with soft hog dung.

I parried his first wild blows and then stepping in close I struck him
lightly in the face—I am sure I did not strike him hard, for I did not
mean to—I wanted to play with him; but the result was as astonishing to
me as it must have been to him, though not so painful. He rebounded from
my fist fully three feet and then went over on his back again, spitting
blood and teeth from his mouth.

And then I picked him up by the scruff of his neck and the seat of his
breeches and lifting him high above my head I hurled him out of the pen
into the market place, where, for the first time, I saw a large crowd of
interested spectators.

Vonbulen was not a popular character in the teivos, and many were the
broad smiles I saw on the faces of those of my class; but there were
others who did not smile. They were Kalkars and half-breeds.

I saw all this in a single glance and then I returned to my work, for I
was not through. Vonbulen lay where he had alighted and after him and
onto him, one by one, I threw his sacks of grain and his scrub pigs and
then I opened the gate and started out to bring in my own produce and
livestock. As I did so, I almost ran into Soor, standing there eyeing me
with a most malignant expression upon his face.

“What does this mean?” he fairly screamed at me.

“It means,” I replied, “that no one can steal the place of a Julian as
easily as Vonbulen thought.”

“He did not steal it,” yelled Soor. “I gave it to him. Get out! It is
his.”

“It is not yours to give,” I replied. “I know my rights and no man shall
take them from me without a fight. Do you understand me?” And then I
brushed by him without another glance and drove my wethers into the pen.
As I did so, I saw that no one was smiling any more—my friends looked
very glum and very frightened; but a man came up from my right and stood
by my side, facing Soor, and when I turned my eyes in his direction I
saw that it was Jim.

Then I realized how serious my act must have seemed and I was sorry that
Jim had come and thus silently announced that he stood with me in what I
had done. No others came, although there were many who hated the Kalkars
fully as much as we.

Soor was furious; but he could not stop me. Only The Twentyfour could
take the pen away from me. He called me names and threatened me; but I
noticed that he waited until he had walked a short distance away before
he did so. It was as food to a starving man to know that even one of our
oppressors feared me. So far, this had been the happiest day of my life.

I hurriedly got the goats into the pen and then, with one of the cheeses
in my hand, I called to Soor. He turned to see what I wanted, showing
his teeth like a rat at bay.

“You told my father to bring you a present,” I yelled at the top of my
lungs, so that all about in every direction heard and turned toward us.
“Here it is!” I cried. “Here is your bribe!” and I hurled the cheese
with all my strength full in his face. He went down like a felled ox and
the people scattered like frightened rabbits. Then I went back into the
pen and started to open and arrange my hides across the fence so that
they might be inspected by prospective purchasers.

Jim, whose pen was next to ours, stood looking across the fence at me
for several minutes. At last he spoke.

“You have done a very rash thing, Julian,” he said; and then: “I envy
you.”