VI
                             SAKU THE NIPON

Hungry and thirsty, Red Lightning and I set off up the canyon away from
the sea, presently entering the first side-canyon[3] bearing in a
northerly direction, for it was my desire to pass through these
mountains in the hope of finding a valley running east and west, which I
could follow back in the direction of my people.

-----

[3] Probably Rustic Canyon, which enters Santa Monica Canyon a short
distance above the sea.

-----

We had proceeded only a short distance up the side-canyon when I
discovered a spring of pure water and around it an abundance of fine
pasture, and a moment later Red Lightning and I were drinking avidly
from the same pool. Then I removed his saddle and bridle and turned him
loose to browse upon the lush grasses, while I removed my clothing and
bathed my body, which was, by now, sorely in need of it. I felt much
refreshed and could I have found food should soon have been myself
again; but without bow and arrows my chances seemed slight unless I were
to take the time to construct a snare and wait for prey. This, however,
I had no mind to do, since I argued that sooner or later I must run
across human habitation, where, unless greatly outnumbered by armed men,
I would obtain food.

For an hour I permitted Red Lightning to line his belly with nutritious
grasses and then I called him to me, re-saddled, and was on my way again
up the wooded, winding canyon, following a well-marked trail in which
constantly appeared the spoor of coyote, wolf, hellhound, deer and lion,
as well as the tracks of domestic animals and the sandaled feet of
slaves; but I saw no signs of shod horses to indicate the presence of
Kalkars. The imprints of sandals might mark only the passage of native
hunters, or they might lead to a hidden camp. It was this that I hoped.

I had wound upward for perhaps two or three miles when I came suddenly
upon a little open meadow and the realization of my wish, for there
stood three of the pointed tents of slaves consisting of a number of
poles leaning inward and lashed together at the top, the whole covered
by a crazy patchwork consisting of the skins of animals sewn together.
These tents, however, were peculiar, in that they were very small.

As I came in sight of the camp I was discovered by a horde of scrawny
curs that came bristling and yapping toward me, apprising their masters
of the presence of a stranger. A head appeared in the opening of one of
the tents and was as quickly withdrawn. I called aloud that I would
speak with their chief and then I waited through a full minute of
silence. Receiving no reply I called again, more peremptorily, for I am
not accustomed to waiting long for obedience.

This time I received a reply. “Go away, Kalkar,” cried a man’s voice.
“This is our country. Go away or we will kill you.”

“But I am not a Kalkar. I have but just escaped them and I have been
long without food. I wish food and then I will go on, for I am in search
of my own people who are fighting the Kalkars at the edge of their great
camp to the east.”

He stuck his head through the flap then and eyed me closely. His face
was small and much wrinkled, and he had a great shock of stiff, black
hair that stuck out in all directions and was not confined by any band.
I thought that he must still be sitting or squatting upon the ground, so
low was his head, but a moment later, when, evidently having decided to
investigate my claims more closely, he parted the flap and stepped out
of the tent, I was startled to see a man little more than three feet
tall standing before me. He was stark naked and carried a bow in one
hand and several arrows in the other. At first I thought he might be a
child, but his old and wrinkled face, as well as the well-developed
muscles moving beneath his brown skin, belied that.

Behind him came two other men of about the same height and
simultaneously from the other two tents appeared six or eight more of
these diminutive warriors. They formed a semicircle about me, their
weapons in readiness.

“From what country do you come?” demanded the little chief.

I pointed toward the east. “From the desert beyond your farthest
mountains,” I replied.

He shook his head. “We have never been beyond our own hills,” he said.

It was most difficult to understand him, though I am familiar with the
dialects of a score of tribes and the mongrel tongue that is employed by
both the Kalkars and ourselves to communicate with the natives, yet we
managed to make ourselves understood to one another.

I dismounted and approached them, my hand held out toward them as is the
custom of my people in greeting friends, with whom we always clasp hands
after an absence, or when meeting friendly strangers for the first time.
They did not seem to understand my intentions and drew back, fitting
arrows to their bows.

I dropped my hand and smiled, at a loss as how best to reassure them.
The smile must have done it, for immediately the old man’s face broke
into a smile.

“You are not a Kalkar,” he said; “they never smile at us.” He lowered
his weapon, his example being followed by the others. “Tie your horse to
a tree. We will give you food.” He turned toward the tents and called to
the women to come out and prepare food.

I dropped my reins to the ground, which is all the tying that Red
Lightning requires, and advanced toward the little men, and when I had
thrown aside my Kalkar coat and bonnet they crowded around me with
questions and comment.

“No, he is not a Kalkar,” said one. “His cloak and bonnet are Kalkar,
but not his other garments.”

“I was captured by the Kalkars,” I explained, “and to escape I covered
myself with this cloak which I had taken from a Kalkar that I killed.”

A stream of women and children were now issuing from the tents, whose
capacity must have been taxed beyond their limit. The children were like
tiny toys, so diminutive were they, and, like their fathers and mothers,
quite naked, nor was there among them all the sign of an ornament or
decoration of any nature. They crowded around me, filled with
good-natured curiosity, and I could see that they were a joyous, kindly
little people; but even as I stood there encircled by them I could
scarce bring myself to believe in their existence, rather thinking that
I was the victim of a capricious dream, for never had I seen or heard of
such a race of tiny humans. As I had this closer and better opportunity
to study them, I saw that they were not of the same race as the slaves,
or In-juns, but were of a lighter shade of brown, with differently
shaped heads and slanting eyes. They were a handsome little people and
there was about the children that which was at once laughable and
appealing, so that one could not help but love them.

The women busied themselves making fire and bringing meat—a leg of
venison, and flour for bread, with fresh fruits, such as apricots,
strawberries and oranges. They chattered and laughed all the time,
casting quick glances at me and then giggling behind their hands. The
children and the dogs were always under foot, but no one seemed to mind
them and no one spoke a cross word, and often I saw the men snatch up a
child and caress it. They seemed a very happy people—quite unlike any
other peoples who have lived long in a Kalkar country. I mentioned this
fact to the chief and asked him how they could be so happy under the
cruel domination of the Kalkars.

“We do not live under their rule,” he replied. “We are a free people.
When they attempted to harass us, we made war upon them.”

“You made war upon the Kalkars?” I demanded, incredulously.

“Upon those who came into our hills,” he replied. “We never leave the
hills. We know every rock and tree and trail and cave, and being a very
little people and accustomed to living always in the hills we can move
rapidly from place to place. Long ago the Kalkars used to send warriors
to kill us, but they could never find us, though first from one side and
then from another our arrows fell among them, killing many. We were all
about them but they could not see us. Now they leave us alone. The hills
are ours from the great Kalkar camp to the sea and up the sea for many
marches. The hills furnish us with all that we require and we are
happy.”

“What do you call yourselves?” I asked. “From where do you come?”

“We are Nipons,” he replied. “I am Saku, chief of this district. We have
always been here in these hills. The first Nipon, our ancestor, was a
most honorable giant who lived upon an island far, far out in the middle
of the sea. His name was Mik-do. He lives there now. When we die we go
there to live with him. That is all.”

“The Kalkars no longer bother you?” I asked.

“Since the time of my father’s father they have not come to fight with
us,” replied Saku. “We have no enemies other than Raban, the giant, who
lives on the other side of the hills. He comes sometimes to hunt us with
his dogs and his slaves. Those whom he kills or captures, he eats. He is
a very terrible creature, is Raban. He rides a great horse and covers
himself with iron so that our arrows and our spears do not harm him. He
is three times as tall as we.”

I assumed that, after the manner of the ignorant, he was referring to an
imaginary personification of some greatly feared manifestation of
natural forces—storm, fire or earthquake, perhaps—probably fire,
though, since his reference to the devouring of his people by this giant
suggested fire, and so dismissed the subject from my mind.

As I ate, I questioned Saku concerning the trails leading back in the
direction of my people. He told me that the trail upon which he was
camped led to the summit of the hills, joining with another that led
straight down into a great valley which he thought would lead me to my
destination, but of that he was not sure, having only such knowledge of
the extent of the valley as one might glean from viewing it from the
summit of his loftiest hills. Against this trail, however, he warned me
explicitly, saying that I might use it in comparative safety only to the
summit, for upon the other side it led straight down past the great
stone tent of Raban the giant.

“The safer way,” he said, “is to follow the trail that winds along the
summit of the hills, back toward the camp of the Kalkars—a great trail
that was built in the time of Mik-do, and from which you can ride down
into the valley along any one of many trails. Always you will be in
danger of Raban until you have gone a day’s march beyond his tent, for
he rides far in search of prey; but at least you will be in less danger
than were you to ride down the canyon in which he lives.”

But Raban, the imaginary giant, did not worry me much, and though I
thanked Saku for his warnings, and let him believe that I would follow
his advice, I was secretly determined to take the shortest route to the
valley beyond the hills.

Having finished my meal I thanked my hosts and was preparing to depart
when I saw the women and children pulling down the tents to an
accompaniment of much laughter and squealing while several of the men
started up the canyon, voicing strange cries. I looked at Saku
questioningly.

“We are moving up the canyon for deer,” he explained, “and will go with
you part of the way to the summit. There are many trees across the trail
that would hinder you, and these we will move or show you a way around.”

“Must you carry all this camp equipment?” I asked him, seeing the women
struggling with the comparatively heavy hide tents, which they were
rolling and tying into bundles, while others gathered the tent poles and
bound them together.

“We will put them on our horses,” he explained, pointing up the canyon.

I looked in the direction he indicated, to see the strangest creatures I
had ever looked upon—a string of tiny, woolly horses that were being
driven toward camp by the men who had recently gone up the canyon after
them. The little animals were scarce half the height of Red Lightning
and they moved at so slow a pace that they seemed scarce to move at all.
They had huge bellies and most enormous ears set upon great, uncouth
heads. In appearance they seemed part sheep, part horse and a great deal
of the long-eared rabbit of the desert.

They were most docile creatures, and during the business of strapping
the loads to them the children played about between their feet or were
tossed to their backs, where they frolicked, while the sad-eyed,
dejected creatures stood with drooping heads and waving ears. When we
started upon the march, the children were all mounted upon these little
horses, sometimes perched upon the top of a load, or again there would
be three or four of them upon the back of a single beast.

It did not take me long to discover that Red Lightning and I had no
place in this cavalcade, for if we went behind we were constantly
trampling upon the heels of the slow-moving little horses, and if we
went ahead we lost them in a few yards, and so I explained to Saku that
my haste made it necessary for me to go on, but that if I came to any
obstacle I could not surmount alone I would wait there for them to
overtake me. I thanked him again for his kindness to me, and we
exchanged vows of friendship which I believe were as sincere upon his
part as they were upon mine. They were a happy, lovable little people
and I was sorry to leave them.

Pushing rapidly ahead I encountered no insuperable obstacles and after a
couple of hours I came out upon a wide trail at the summit of the hills
and saw spread before me a beautiful valley extending far to the east
and to the west. At my feet was the trail leading down past the
imaginary tent of the imaginary Raban and toward this I reined Red
Lightning.

I had not yet crossed the old trail of the ancients when I heard the
sound of the flying feet of horses approaching from the west. Here the
trail winds upwards and passes around the shoulder of a hill, and as I
looked I saw a running horse come into view and at its heels another in
hot pursuit. The rider of the second horse was evidently a Kalkar
warrior, as a red robe whipped in the wind behind him, but the figure
upon the leading animal I could not identify at first; but as they drew
rapidly nearer, the streaming hair of its head suggested that it must be
a woman.

A Kalkar up to his old tricks, I thought, as I sat watching them. So
intent was the man upon his prey that he did not notice me until after
he had seized the bridle rein of his quarry and brought both animals to
a halt not a score of feet from me, then he looked up in surprise. His
captive was looking at me, too. She was a girl with wide, frightened
eyes—appealing eyes that even while they appealed were dulled by
hopelessness, for what aid might she expect from one Kalkar against
another, and, of course, she must have believed me a Kalkar.

She was a Kalkar woman, but still she was a woman, and so I was bound to
aid her. Even had I not felt thus obligated by her sex I should have
killed her companion in any event, for was he not a stranger in addition
to being a Kalkar?

I let my Kalkar cloak slip to the ground and I tossed my Kalkar bonnet
after it. “I am The Red Hawk!” I cried, as I drew the sword from my belt
and touched Red Lightning with my spurs. “Fight, Kalkar!”

The Kalkar tried to bring his spear into play, but it was slung across
his back and he couldn’t unsling it in time, so he, too, drew a sword,
and to gain time he reined his horse behind that of the girl; but she
was master of her own mount now, and with a shake of her reins she had
urged her horse forward, uncovering the Kalkar, and now he and I were
face to face. He towered above me and he had the protection of his iron
vest and iron bonnet, while I was without even the protection of a
shield; but whatever advantage these things might have seemed to give
him they were outweighed by the lightness and agility of Red Lightning
and the freedom of my own muscles, unencumbered by heavy metal
protections. His big, clumsy horse was ill-mannered, and on top of all
else, the Kalkar’s swordsmanship was so poor that it seemed ill
befitting a brave warrior to take his almost defenseless life; but he
was a Kalkar and there was no alternative. Had I found him naked and
unarmed in bed and unconscious with fever, it would still have been my
duty to dispatch him, though there had been no glory in it.

I could not, however, bring myself to the point of butchering him
without appearing, at least, to give him a chance, and so I played with
him, parrying his cuts and thrusts and tapping him now and then upon his
iron bonnet and vest. This must have given him hope, for suddenly he
drew off and then rushed me, his sword swinging high above his head. The
Flag! What a chance he offered, blundering down upon me with chest and
belly and groin exposed, for his iron shirt could never stop a Julian’s
point.

So wondrous awkward was his method of attack that I waited to see the
nature of his weird technique before dispatching him. I was upon his
left front and when he was almost upon me he struck downward at me and
to his left, but he could not think of two things at once—me and his
horse—and as he did not strike quite far enough to the left his blade
clove his mount’s skull between the ears, and the poor brute, which was
rushing forward at the time, fell squarely upon its face, and turning
completely over, pinioned its rider beneath its corpse. I dismounted to
put the man out of his misery, for I was sure he must be badly injured,
but I found that he was stone dead. His knife and spear I appropriated
as well as his heavy bow and arrows, though I was fearful as to my skill
with the last weapons, so much lighter and shorter are the bows to which
I am accustomed. I had not concerned myself with the girl, thinking, of
course, that during the duel she would take advantage of the opportunity
to escape; but when I looked up from the corpse of the Kalkar she was
still there, sitting her horse a few yards away, and eyeing me intently.