Let me preface this story, as I did the other that I told you on board
the liner _Harding_ two years ago, with the urgent request that you
attempt to keep constantly in mind the theory that there is no such
thing as time—that there is no past and no future—that there is only
_now_, there never has been anything but _now_, and there never will be
anything but _now_. It is a theory analogous to that which stipulates
that there is no such thing as space.

I have told you of the attempt made to reach Mars in _The Barsoom_ and
of how it was thwarted by Lieutenant Commander Orthis. That was in the
year 2026.

The son that was born to Julian 5th and the Princess Nah-ee-lah in 2036
was the great-grandfather of Julian 9th for whose story you have asked
me, and in whom I lived again in the twenty-second century.

For some reason no further attempts were made to reach Mars with whom we
had been in radio communication for seventy years. Possibly it was due
to the rise of a religious cult which preached against all forms of
scientific progress and which by political pressure was able to mold and
influence several successive weak administrations of a notoriously weak
party that had had its origin nearly a century before in a group of
peace-at-any-price men.

In the year 2050 the blow fell. Lieutenant Commander Orthis, after
twenty-four years upon the Moon, returned to Earth with one hundred
thousand Kalkars and a thousand Va-gas. In a thousand great ships they
came, bearing arms and ammunition and strange, new engines of
destruction fashioned by the brilliant mind of the arch villain of the
universe. No one but Orthis could have done it. No one but Orthis would
have done it. It had been he who had perfected the engines that had made
_The Barsoom_ possible, and after he had become the dominant force among
the Kalkars of the Moon and had aroused their imaginations with tales of
the great, rich world lying ready and unarmed within easy striking
distance of them, it had been an easy thing to enlist their labor in the
building of the ships and the manufacture of the countless accessories
necessary to the successful accomplishment of the great adventure. The
Moon furnished all the needed materials, the Kalkars furnished the
labor, and Orthis the knowledge, the brains and the leadership. Ten
years had been devoted to the spreading of his propaganda and the
winning over of The Thinkers, or Kalkars, and then fourteen years were
required to build and outfit the fleet.

Five days before they arrived astronomers detected the fleet as minute
specks upon the eye-pieces of their telescopes. There was much
speculation, but it was Julian 5th alone who guessed the truth. He
warned the governments at London and Washington, but though he was then
in command of the International Peace Fleet, his appeals were treated
with levity and ridicule. He knew Orthis and so he knew that it was
easily within the man’s ability to construct a fleet, and he also knew
that only for one purpose would Orthis return to Earth with so great a
number of ships. It meant war, and the Earth had nothing but a handful
of cruisers wherewith to defend herself—there were not available in all
the world twenty-five thousand organized fighting men, nor equipment for
more than half again that number.

The inevitable occurred. Orthis seized London and Washington
simultaneously. His well-armed forces met with practically no
resistance. There could be no resistance, for there was nothing
wherewith to resist. It was a criminal offense to possess firearms. Even
edged weapons with blades over six inches long were barred by law.
Military training, except for the chosen few of the International Peace
Fleet, had been banned for years. And against this pitiable state of
disarmament and unpreparedness was brought a force of a hundred thousand
well-armed, seasoned warriors with engines of destruction that were
unknown to Earth Men. A description of one alone will suffice to explain
the utter hopelessness of the cause of the Earth Men.

This instrument, of which the invaders brought but one, was mounted upon
the deck of their flag ship and was operated by Orthis in person. It was
an invention of his own which no Kalkar understood or could operate.
Briefly, it was a device for the generation of radio-activity at any
desired vibratory rate and for the directing of the resultant emanations
upon any given object within its effective range. We do not know what
Orthis called it, but the Earth Men of that day knew it as an electronic
rifle.

It was quite evidently a recent invention, and therefore in some
respects crude, but be that as it may, its effects were sufficiently
deadly to permit Orthis to practically wipe out the entire International
Peace Fleet in less than thirty days, as rapidly as the various ships
came within range of the electronic rifle. To the layman, the visual
effects induced by this weird weapon were appalling and nerve
shattering. A mighty cruiser vibrant with life and power might sail
majestically to engage the flag ship of the Kalkars, when, as by magic,
every aluminum part of the cruiser would vanish as mist before the sun,
and as nearly ninety percent of a Peace Fleet cruiser, including the
hull, was constructed of aluminum, the result may be imagined—one
moment there was a great ship forging through the air, her flags and
pennants flying in the wind, her band playing, her officers and men at
their quarters—the next a mass of engines, polished wood, cordage,
flags and human beings hurtling earthward to extinction.

It was Julian 5th who discovered the secret of this deadly weapon and
that it accomplished its destruction by projecting upon the ships of the
Peace Fleet the vibratory rate of radio-activity identical with that of
aluminum, with the result that, thus excited, the electrons of the
attacked substance increased their own vibratory rate to a point that
they became dissipated again into their elemental and invisible
state—in other words, aluminum was transmuted into something else that
was as invisible and intangible as ether. Perhaps it was ether.

Assured of the correctness of his theory, Julian 5th withdrew in his own
flag ship to a remote part of the world, taking with him the few
remaining cruisers of the Fleet. Orthis searched for them for months,
but it was not until the close of the year 2050 that the two fleets met
again and for the last time. Julian 5th had by this time perfected the
plan for which he had gone into hiding, and he now faced the Kalkar
fleet and his old enemy, Orthis, with some assurance of success. His
flag ship moved at the head of the short column that contained the
remaining hope of a world and Julian 5th stood upon her deck beside a
small and innocent looking box mounted upon a stout tripod.

Orthis moved to meet him—he would destroy the ships one by one as he
approached them. He gloated at the easy victory that lay before him. He
directed the electronic rifle at the flag ship of his enemy and touched
a button. Suddenly his brows knitted. What was this? He examined the
rifle. He held a piece of aluminum before its muzzle and saw the metal
disappear. The mechanism was operating, but the ships of the enemy did
not disappear. Then he guessed the truth, for his own ship was now but a
short distance from that of Julian 5th, and he could see that the hull
of the latter was entirely coated with a grayish substance that he
sensed at once for what it was—an insulating material that rendered the
aluminum parts of the enemy’s fleet immune from the invisible fire of
his rifle.

Orthis’ scowl changed to a grim smile. He turned two dials upon a
control box connected with the weapon and again pressed the button.
Instantly the bronze propellers of the Earth Man’s flag ship vanished in
thin air, together with numerous fittings and parts above decks.
Similarly went the exposed bronze parts of the balance of The
International Peace Fleet, leaving a squadron of drifting derelicts at
the mercy of the foe.

Julian 5th’s flag ship was at that time but a few fathoms from that of
Orthis. The two men could plainly see one another’s features. Orthis’
expression was savage and gloating, that of Julian 5th sober and
dignified.

“You thought to beat me, then!” jeered Orthis. “God, but I have waited
and labored and sweated for this day. I have wrecked a world to best
you, Julian 5th, to best you and to kill you, but to let you know first
that I am going to kill you—to kill you in such a way that man was
never before killed, as no other brain than mine could conceive of
killing. You insulated your aluminum parts, thinking thus to thwart me,
but you did not know—your feeble intellect could not know—that as
easily as I destroyed aluminum I can, by the simplest of adjustments,
attune this weapon to destroy any one of a hundred different substances
and among them human flesh or human bone. That is what I am going to do
now, Julian 5th. First I am going to dissipate the bony structure of
your frame. It will be done painlessly—it may not even result in
instant death, and I am hoping that it will not. For I want you to know
the power of a real intellect—the intellect from which you stole the
fruits of its efforts for a life time; but not again, Julian 5th, for
today you die—first your bones, then your flesh, and after you, your
men, and after them your spawn, the son that the woman I loved bore you;
but she—she shall belong to me! Take that memory to hell with you!” and
he turned toward the dials beside his lethal weapon.

But Julian 5th placed a hand upon the little box resting upon the strong
tripod before him, and he it was who touched a button before Orthis had
touched his. Instantly the electronic rifle vanished beneath the very
eyes of Orthis, and at the same time the two ships touched and Julian
5th had leaped the rail to the enemy deck and was running toward his
arch enemy.

Orthis stood gazing horrified, at the spot where the greatest invention
of his giant intellect had stood but an instant before, and then he
looked up at Julian 5th approaching him and cried out horribly.

“Stop!” he screamed. “Always, all our lives you have robbed me of the
fruits of my efforts. Somehow you have stolen the secret of this, my
greatest invention, and now you have destroyed it. May God in
heaven——”

“Yes,” cried Julian 5th, “and I am going to destroy you, unless you
surrender to me with all your force.”

“Never!” almost screamed the man, who seemed veritably demented, so
hideous was his rage. “Never! This is the end, Julian 5th, for both of
us.” Even as he uttered the last word, he threw a lever mounted upon a
controlboard before him. There was a terrific explosion, and both ships,
bursting into flame, plunged meteor-like into the ocean beneath.

Thus went Julian 5th and Orthis to their deaths, carrying with them the
secret of the terrible destructive force that the latter had brought
with him from the Moon; but the Earth was already undone. It lay
helpless before its conquerors. What the outcome might have been had
Orthis lived, may only remain conjecture. Possibly he would have brought
order out of the chaos he had created and instituted a reign of reason.
Earth Men would at least have had the advantage of his wonderful
intellect and his power to rule the ignorant Kalkars that he had
transported from the Moon.

There might even have been some hope had the Earth Men banded together
against the common enemy, but this they did not do. Elements who had
been discontented with this or that phase of government joined issues
with the invaders. The lazy, the inefficient, the defective, who ever
place the blame for their failures upon the shoulders of the successful,
swarmed to the banners of the Kalkars in whom they sensed kindred souls.

Political factions, labor and capital each saw, or thought they saw, an
opportunity for advantage to themselves in one way or another that was
inimical to the interests of the others. The Kalkar fleets returned to
the Moon for more Kalkars until it was estimated that seven millions of
them were being transported to Earth each year.

Julian 6th, with Nah-ee-lah, his Moon Maid mother, lived, as did Or-tis,
the son of Orthis, but my story is not to be of them, but of Julian 9th,
who was born just a century after the birth of Julian 5th.

Julian 9th will tell his own story.