XIX BLOCKING THE GAME OF BADGER


“Here’s a pretty kettle of fish!” declared Jack, in a disgusted tone.

“To think that we’d have to run across that duffer right here in the
canal locks,” Ballyhoo went on to say gloomily. “What if those two old
filibusters get to scrapping while we’re neighbors here for a while?
It might mean the finish of our fine little cruise; for if anything
happened to knock Captain Shooks out of the running there’s no one else
could manage this queer old tub.”

“We’d have to take charge, pay off the crew, ship the cargo home, and
then store the submarine down here in some boatyard until the company
decided what to do with her,” said Oscar decidedly; “but what’s the
use crossing a bridge before we come to it? The two skippers may not
exchange a single word, knowing how they’d get in a fighting humor in
consequence.”

It turned out that Ballyhoo was wrong in guessing they would have to
remain in the lock all night. With such magical artificial illumination
as was afforded by the numerous electric lights scattered along both
sides of the great walls, work could be carried on just as well during
the hours of night as in the daytime.

It was not long afterwards when water began to come into the lock, and
both boats commenced to rise toward the higher levels. The boys could
see that their craft was an object of great curiosity to the entire
crew of the steam yacht, for a group of sailors gathered along the side
to watch them.

Something caused the trio of boys to go ashore in order to observe at
close hand the working of the magnificent machinery by which the locks
were controlled. Jack hoped that on the return trip they would be
passing through here by daylight, for he must secure a set of pictures
that would show just how the conditions were.

Evidently strict orders had been given to the crew of the other boat,
for there was none of the customary interchange of salutations and
jokes, such as might be expected. Those men knew who those aboard the
submarine were. They possibly labored under the impression that they
had been cheated out of more or less prize money by Captain Shooks’
shrewd policy in getting ahead of them on two occasions. Hence they
felt a bitter animosity toward the crew of the _Argonaut_, and it was
well for the sake of peace in the Canal Zone that the rivals were kept
apart.

When the time came for their release from the lock, the boys hastened
to once more get aboard. The captain was sitting on the little deck
above the conning tower. Oscar believed he was holding some sort of
weapon in his hands, though he could not be quite sure about this, for
the skipper hastened to conceal whatever he had there.

“The expected storm didn’t break, eh, lads?” he remarked, as they
joined him.

“If you mean trouble with those other chaps,” Ballyhoo quickly said,
“we’re just shaking hands with ourselves that nothing happened. We’ve
heard some one whooping things up aboard the other boat, which we kind
of imagine must have been Captain Badger. The men seemed to jump every
time he shouted anything, and it’s plain to be seen they’re afraid of
him when his mad is up.”

“Yes, he was always reckoned a terror,” admitted the skipper, between
his set teeth; “and I’ve half expected to be favored with a visit from
him. But the sight of those boys in khaki along the walls of the lock
must have kept him from bothering us.”

“But what about after we pass out of the lock, Captain?” remarked
Ballyhoo; “it strikes me there may be places along the canal, or in the
big lake we’ve got to pass through, where he might give us trouble,
such as ramming into us, and claiming it was a sheer accident?”

“I’ve thought of all that,” the other admitted, “and when we pass out I
mean to tie up here close by, and spend the balance of the night within
touch of these same U. S. regulars. Then if we have any trouble, we can
look to them for assistance.”

Somehow the boys all approved of this idea. It seemed both reasonable
and prudent in their eyes. While ready at all times to defend
themselves, as every American should, if they wish to maintain their
self-respect, all the same they did not believe in going around with a
“chip on their shoulder,” and inviting an attack.

So they remained there on the upper deck, watching all that took place.
The boys knew that after the crew of the _Dauntless_ had dispersed to
their quarters, at the command of their captain, others were constantly
watching the submarine. They could see dim figures flitting back and
forth, and acting as though they were desirous of remaining under cover.

“Hope they’ll know us another time,” grunted Ballyhoo, after the
captain had stepped ashore to see about a matter of business; for fees
had to be paid to cover their passage through the locks, since the U.
S. Government does not propose to run a “free show,” after going to
such heavy expense.

“I’d give something just to know what they’re saying about us over
there,” Jack went on to observe; “because there’s no question but what
that’s Badger himself and his officers who are watching all we do here.”

“For one thing,” chuckled Ballyhoo, vindictively, “I reckon they’re
trying to figure just where we keep all those bully ingots of gold we
cribbed from the old Spanish hulk, where they’d lain under the sea for
some hundreds of years. They’d like to be able to use Roentgen Rays,
and look right through the sides of our boat so they could count how
many bricks we stowed away. But even if they had that knowledge what
good would it do ’em, tell me?”

Neither of the others appeared to know; at least they failed to answer
Ballyhoo’s question.

Later on the submarine skipper was notified that his vessel could leave
the lock and proceed. He had already made arrangements, however, to
stay in the canal just beyond until morning, allowing the steam yacht
to pass him by, and go ahead.

It was a singular happening when those two boats ranged alongside each
other. There was an utter absence of the usual greetings and rough
badinage, and this must have struck any idle observer on the canal wall
as peculiar, though the true inwardness of the situation might not be
apparent to him.

Then the _Dauntless_ passed on, and the squat submarine, looking like
an ugly whale, being low down in the water, and with only the conning
tower rearing itself above the superstructure, remained at her moorings.

“Well, we’re not sorry to see the last of that steam yacht, if we told
the honest truth about it,” remarked Ballyhoo.

The boys being tempted to once more leave the boat and go ashore, for
there seemed to be a number of other interesting sights they had missed
on the previous occasion, spoke to one of the men about it, asking him
to sit there on deck, and make sure that no stranger slipped aboard.

After another hour or so they had seen all that was possible under
the conditions, and again made their way back to the boat. More than
ever were they struck with the queer and ungainly appearance of the
submersible, as they drew alongside, to find the sailor smoking his
pipe and apparently keeping a faithful watch above.

“But,” said Ballyhoo, when this fact was mentioned, “she’s a dandy in
her own specialty, which is diving, and staying under water. They ought
to have named her the _Mallard_, it strikes me, because she’s built on
that order.”

None of them cared to remain up any longer. The skipper made his
appearance just then, and announced that he would see to it that a
guard was posted on the upper deck, and armed in the bargain.

“It may be those sharks won’t think to try and do us any harm while
we’re here in the canal,” he went on to say dubiously, “because it
might be like killing the goose that lays the golden eggs; for their
only hope seems to be to chase around after us, and try to swoop down
on something we’ve found. But I’m taking no chances. You see, I know
Badger too well to trust him one minute. He’s well named, though Weasel
might fit him even better.”

Going below Oscar and his two chums soon made themselves comfortable
in their several bunks. As the hatch in the conning tower was open,
and the ventilators doing their regular work in addition, it seemed
much more comfortable down below than ordinary, for the weather was
excessively warm during the days.

Oscar remembered lying there for a little while, thinking of things in
the past; but he finally went to sleep. The other pair were already far
in dreamland, as their regular breathing attested.

When Oscar awakened he could not tell why it was he seemed to feel a
strange sensation, just as though some deadly peril hovered over them.
A slight sound drew his attention, and turning his head on his pillow
he saw something that caused him to hold his breath with amazement.

There was always a dim light left in the apartment the boys occupied,
which, in fact, bordered the little den Captain Shooks dignified by
the name of “office.” Where he lay Oscar could look straight through
the open doorway, and see the whole interior of this “cubby-hole,” as
Ballyhoo always called it.

Some one was stooping over in front of the desk at which the skipper so
often sat when writing up his papers, and entering events in his log
of the cruise. Oscar saw to his dismay that it was not Captain Shooks,
but an utter stranger, a small, wiry fellow, who had managed in some
mysterious way to get inside the submarine. Instantly Oscar suspected
that the sailor they had left in charge of the upper deck while they
went ashore must have been unfaithful to his duty, and left the hatch
unguarded for a few minutes while he crept below, possibly to get his
pipe.

It did not matter so much _how_ the spy had managed to get aboard as
that he was searching eagerly through the skipper’s private papers,
evidently looking for the priceless chart that told, as near as was
known, the exact location of a dozen other sunken treasure ships,
besides the two already visited.

Oscar could not hold in any longer. Giving a shout he sprang from his
bunk, and made a swift lunge toward the door of the office, intending
to close this, and keep the intruder shut in until the skipper could
attend to him.

Unfortunately, Oscar caught his foot in some object that may have
been purposely placed there with the intention of tripping any of the
sleepers should they awaken while the spy was at work.

As the boy went headlong to the floor, he saw the stranger shoot past
him and make for the ladder leading up into the conning tower. As soon
as Oscar could get to his feet, although half dazed from having struck
his head severely, he hastened to chase after the vanished figure.
Ballyhoo and Jack were at his heels, though utterly in the dark as to
what it all meant.

When they got above they found that the man on guard was staring into
the half gloom alongside the moored submarine. He had been thrust aside
by something that came bolting out of the hatch; for, not expecting
danger from that quarter, the sentry was caught unprepared; and before
he could recover enough to use the gun with which he had been armed,
the unknown had utterly vanished.

But after all it might have been much worse, for no particular damage
had been done. The skipper told them he had the precious chart and
directions where no spy could ever find them; and so Oscar and the
other boys finally went back to their bunks, though an additional guard
was stationed in the conning tower for security.