XX THE END OF THE CRUISE--CONCLUSION


In the morning the voyage was resumed, but they did not hurry, it being
the purpose of Captain Shooks to let the _Dauntless_ have plenty of
time to reach the Pacific and go on. If they should find her hovering
around as though waiting for them, nothing could be more simple with
regard to getting rid of the rival boat than for them to submerge, and
keep moving under the water until night came on.

This time they were meaning to head further south. They had a pretty
accurate account of an old-time buccaneer that had preyed upon the gold
coast with impunity, until finally it ran upon a disguised British
sloop of war, which proceeded to hammer it so well that in the end the
pirate sank. The account also stated, on the authority of competent
witnesses who had left a record behind them before they passed away,
that the notorious commander of the buccaneer had all his wealth on
board at the time, it being his intention to give up the nefarious
business, and settle down under an assumed name in some Continental
country, there to enjoy the ill-gotten fruits of his many sackings of
towns and ships.

Of course, all that amazing treasure went down with the ship, though
some of the crew, it appears, did manage to swim ashore and escape.
Many unsuccessful attempts had been made to find the sunken piratical
vessel, but then none of these were one-half so well fixed for
exploring the bottom of the sea as the one Captain Shooks commanded.

So with ardent hopes they pointed the prow of their odd-looking boat
toward the Peruvian coast, and in due time reached their destination.
It proved to be by long odds the toughest job they had as yet
undertaken, owing to the diverse ocean currents they struck after they
had gone down to investigate.

For days they prowled around that region. When one clue failed the
skipper seemed to have another at hand, upon which he depended to show
them the object of their persistent hunt.

Jack was having the time of his life taking pictures of all the amazing
things they discovered while prosecuting this search. He added several
films to his already wonderful collection, and only feared his supply
would run short before the subjects gave out, and wished he had waited
at Panama for the new lot ordered shipped on from New York.

As time passed, and no reward came to their labors, even the confident
Ballyhoo began to despair of meeting with success.

“I guess the Pacific is our hoodoo, fellows,” he was telling them on
one occasion, as they sat on the edge of the lower bunk, or it might be
a stool, for chairs were at a premium in those close quarters. “After
all we’d better be cutting stick, and going back to the Caribbean Sea,
where we did meet with our usual good luck.”

“Here’s the skipper coming to tell us something,” remarked Jack, “and
from the look on his face I guess it’s good news in the bargain.”

“Three to one he’s decided to clear out of this mess, and get through
the canal again to where we know our ground,” ventured Ballyhoo
confidently.

However, Ballyhoo was wrong for once. Captain Shooks had information of
an altogether different nature to communicate.

“We’ve stopped moving,” he started to say, “and in a cleared spot just
ahead, where our illuminator makes every little object stand out like
daylight, we’ve discovered something that tells us a vessel must have
gone to pieces about here. The fragments look like an old-time anchor,
for one thing, and some other metal parts.”

“Then you think, do you,” asked Oscar, sensing the meaning conveyed
in these words of the skipper, “we’re about on the spot where that
pirate sank; and that she’s been washed around in these currents until
nothing’s left of her hulk?”

“That’s just what I’m afraid of, lad,” admitted the other; “and that
we’ll have come down here on a fool’s errand. However, now that we’re
on the spot we must try as hard as we can to learn the truth.”

Soon they had arisen again to the surface, and placed a buoy to mark
the spot, so they could come again; for just then there was too much
sea running to think of making use of a float.

After waiting there for two days the skipper could not stand any
further delay; so it was arranged that one of the expert divers go
down from the forward deck of the submersible, which, being low down
near the water, might be made to answer the purpose temporarily. If
he struck anything that promised good results they would linger still
longer, waiting for the weather to change.

This plan was put into operation, though with much difficulty, and not
a little added risk. But the diver knew no fear, and was soon down on
the bottom, moving around, and looking for signs to tell the fate of
the once notorious pirate ship.

While this was going on the boys, as well as the captain, remained
there watching the men work the air pump, and wondering what luck would
follow their venture in Western waters.

An hour passed. Then the long anticipated signal came to let them know
the diver wished to be drawn up. One thing they soon learned, which was
that his bag was empty, proving that at least he had not run across any
more ingots such as rewarded their first search under the sea waves.

When his helmet had been removed, and he sucked in more or less of the
fresh sea air, Hicks looked at Captain Shooks and grinned.

“In my hand pouch, sir, you’ll find just one lone gold piece,” he told
the other. “That I found wedged in a crack in what I made out to be
part of a door that was held down in the sand by the anchor. I guess,
sir, that’s all the loot anybody will ever recover from the wreck of
the old pirate ship. There are some queer currents racing about down
there, that must get pretty fierce at times; and by degrees they’ve
just pulled the hulk all to pieces, and scattered everything around for
miles, I take it.”

Captain Shooks knew then that the game was up, so far as any hope of
recovering pirate loot went. That lone gold piece, a Spanish one it
turned out to be, he gave to Oscar, just as a memento of the occasion.
And immediately afterwards orders went out to turn the prow of the
submersible toward the north again.

They meant to abandon the Pacific for the time being. It seemed that
Shooks believed he had enough results already aboard to justify him in
turning back, and once more heading for Baltimore. Then, if all was
well, he could make a start for the far distant Eastern seas, where
many rich cargoes of treasure were known to have been located, but
never recovered.

The three boys had been talking it all over among themselves, and come
to a decision. This was to quit the expedition at Panama, and remain
there for a week or so, until a steamer came along to pass through the
canal bound east, on which they might engage passage.

To tell the honest truth all of them were heartily tired of their
cramped quarters aboard the submarine, not to mention what they had
to endure from bad air whenever the boat was below the surface. The
novelty had long since worn off, and they frankly confessed they knew
when they had had enough.

Besides, Jack wanted to get those precious submarine pictures of his
ashore, and securely on the way home by some better carrier than a boat
that spent most of the time diving under the water, with a consequent
moisture, inside as well as out, that could not be very good for
delicate film material.

They saw nothing more of the _Dauntless_, and hoped that Captain
Badger, despairing of securing any profit from trying to spy upon his
rival, had gone off on a hunt of his own, following some clues he may
have picked up.

Fortune allowed them a chance to make this change of base before two
days had elapsed, and it was not long before a steamer was starting for
New York City, on which they took passage, with all their possessions.

So far as they knew they were returning after having accomplished their
several missions in the most successful manner. This being the case it
can easily be understood that they saw the shore of Panama disappear
below the hazy horizon one morning, and then looked toward the North,
where home and friends would await their coming, with the complete
satisfaction that victory always brings.