A quarter of an hour later a trooper clattered out of the courtyard
of Fort Augustus, bound for Inverness and Miss Macpherson; and in due
course Captain Strange knocked upon the door of the Duke's room and
entered.  In the intervening hour the latter had dined, and appeared
somewhat mollified in temper.

Indeed, there were those who said the Duke of Cumberland was genial
enough at heart, and though a hard man, one with a sense of justice
and honour.  He has had few kindly words and many harsh ones, and
there is a saying that there is good in every man.  As a German
prince he had no sympathy with the Jacobites.  To him they were
savage rebels speaking a barbarous language and wearing a barbarous
dress, about whom he knew nothing except the misrepresentations that
were current in England.

"Oh, Strange, Strange," he laughed, wiping his eyes with the back of
his hand, "who is ze goose now, and where are ze golden eggs?"

"Your Highness," said Strange flushing, "it is humiliating, I'll
allow, but I must tell you that I was mair than unfortunate, being
bound hand and foot by Cameron and no knowing just what had taken
place.  Cameron made good his escape, for my men were of his ain clan
and not anxious to bring dishonour on their name if another would do
as well.  That he foresaw, I'll be bound, and so he sent this boy at
a run with a package, and the presence o' Muckle John lent him
additional importance."

"Oh, vell," said the Duke, "but ve must bring the boy to his senses,
Strange.  Produce your vitnesses, and he'll show us things, I'll be
bound.  Vot does he know, Strange?  Can he tell us any ting?"

"He knows where Lovat is hid, your Highness, and ye ken what his
capture will mean.  It will show the rebels we have long arms."

"True--but vill he tell, Strange?"

"A week or two by himsel' will work wonders, your Highness, once he
knows we can hang him."

"And Muckle John?"

Strange bit his lip.

"Would I could have taken him," he said bitterly.

"Your chance vill come, Strange.  Ze net is closing.  Soon ve vill
'ave ze Pretender, and zen all ze smaller fry vill be caught too--"
he yawned and pushed back his chair--"I am sick to death of zis
country," he said; "it is always rain, rain, rain, and nosings to eat
or drink."

And so Strange left him looking gloomily out of the window upon the
black Highland hills.