When he had slept for nearly a watch, he was wakened by a ticking as
though the wind were shaking a slat in a Venetian blind. As the noise
continued, he sat up, thinking, “Here is the breeze. I’ll have to shut
my window.”

He realised, then, that the noise was from the door. It was a little
light ticking noise, not unlike the gnawing of a mouse, except that it
never varied nor grated.

“It’s only a death-watch,” he said. “No, it’s the breeze, rattling the
door. I’ll jam it up with a piece of paper.” He turned out of bed and
groped in the dark for the cover of his paper-backed novel. “I’ll wedge
it up with this,” he thought. He tore off the cover and folded it into a
wedge.

“By George,” he thought, suddenly, with a leaping heart. “It isn’t the
door rattling, it’s somebody knocking.”

It was no doubt somebody knocking, but with a special secret midnight
knock which might awaken him but alarm no other person on the corridor.

“By George,” he thought, “somebody’s tapping with finger-nails. This is
romance, by George. I’ll have to be jolly careful now, or very likely
I’ll have my throat cut. Who can be knocking?”

He could not think who would be knocking, but he did not for one moment
think that it was a woman come for love of him. He was not frightened.
The knocking was of a piece with the romance of the day before. It gave
him a thrill of delight to think that the knocker might be in peril and
the knock a warning to himself.

“Why not?” he thought. “I’m a foreigner here, as well as a heretic. Why
shouldn’t there be a sort of Bartholomew massacre beginning?”

He crept to the door. The key was in the keyhole; he could see nothing
there but darkness. By the fanlight, he could tell that the corridor
beyond was almost pitch dark. The knocker paused, as though he had heard
the creak of his approach.

“Who is there?” Hi whispered. “Who is there?”

To his amazement, Rosa answered him.

“It is I, Rosa. Rosa Piranha. Open, Hi; open quick.”

He opened the door swiftly yet silently; Rosa glided in.

“It’s only me, Hi,” she whispered. “I thought I’d never make you hear.
Lock the door, lock it, but don’t make a sound. Oh, my God, my God.”

“I’ll strike a light,” he said. “Whatever is the matter? I’ll have a
light in a minute.”

“No light,” she said. “Don’t strike a light. We might be seen from
outside.”

“I must get you a light,” he whispered, “or you’ll be falling over
things, and rousing the house.”

He struck a match: he had a glimpse of Rosa dressed as a peon with a
sombrero jammed over her eyes.

“I’ll sit on the bed,” she whispered. “Put the match out, Hi.”

He put out the match; she sat on the bed and began to shudder till the
bed quaked. As he did not know what to do, he did nothing. He stood well
away from Rosa, waiting for her to speak.

“Good old Rosa,” he said at last.

“Yes, good old Rosa,” she said with a giggle; then she trembled until
she began to sob.

“Good Lord, Rosa,” he said, “pull yourself together. Good Lord, what is
it? What has happened?”

“Those devils, Hi. They’ve got Carlotta.”

“What devils? The Pitubas?”

“Yes. At least, I don’t know if they were Pitubas. Anyhow the Reds have
got her.”

“But I saw her after seven o’clock.”

“They arrested her at ten. They got her brother, too. They’re rounding
up all the Whites. A peon of the de Leyvas came to us to tell us. They
shot at him, but he got away. Hi, they’ve put her into prison. The Reds
have put Carlotta into prison.”

“Good Lord. But, hang it, Rosa, they’ve got no case against her. They’ll
certainly let her out in the morning.”

“But Lopez has gone mad, Hi. We don’t know what is happening.”

“But . . . good Lord. It’s four o’clock in the morning; more. How on
earth did you get in? Look here, is there anything that I can do?”

“They’ve got her in their prison on a charge of resisting authority, or
being deemed to be the associate of those planning to resist authority.
The peon heard her deny the first charge. The officer said that he
should arrest her on the other. And they may shoot her, Hi.”

“Shoot Carlotta? Never.”

“They may.”

“Oh, hang it, Rosa.”

“This isn’t England, Hi, but a place where we hate; you don’t know how
we hate. Mother cannot stand these shocks, but I had to wake her and
tell her. She said at once, ‘We must get word through to Manuel.’”

Here she stopped at a horrible memory.

“Go ahead,” Hi said.

“This isn’t like England, Hi,” she said. “Twice, even in my life-time,
Whites and Reds have made it dangerous for each other. So we make
arrangements and codes for messages. We had one of our boys, Estevan
Osmeña, sworn to take a message in case of need. We roused him up. Our
horses were gone, as you saw; the horses are always the first thing they
take, but we sent him off to where he could get a horse. I thought
nobody saw him go.”

Here she stopped to tremble till the bed seemed to giggle at her.

“Go on,” Hi said, “cheer up and go on.”

“About two hours ago,” she said, “when we had all gone back to bed, a
patrol rode up to the house and summoned mother to open the door. I said
that she was too ill, but that I would open. So I lit up and opened.
There was the mulatto, Zarzas, with some Pitubas. He said, ‘This is for
you.’ He gave me Estevan’s hand, cut off at the wrist, with mother’s
letter pinned to it. He said, ‘This is the Dead Letter Post; the White
letter comes back Red. I would recommend you send no more.’

“Then I had to serve him and his men with drinks, of course; he called
it ‘postage for midnight delivery.’”

“Then they had killed your groom?”

“Yes.”

“I say,” Hi said. “But hold on a minute, I’ll just dress, if you’ll
excuse me. But tell me, how did you pass the patrols and the gates?”

“Market people can always pass in the early mornings. I brought in a
basket of flowers like a gardener’s peon. You remember Manuel said at
lunch that there was a way into this hotel at the back. I came in by
that. I knew your floor and room. But I nearly died of terror when I
heard the negroes at their gambling.”

“I don’t wonder. But I say you have got some pluck.”

“Oh, Hi, forgive me,” she said, “but you’re the only person I can think
of. Will you take the news to Manuel?”

“Why, of course I will, Rosa. I wanted to last night but Carlotta
wouldn’t let me. I’ll go like a shot.”

She fell upon her knees and kissed his hands, calling upon God and the
saints to bless him.

“That’s all right, Rosa,” he said. “That’s all right. We’ll save her.”

“This devil, Lopez, is going to wipe out the Whites,” she said.

“Not he,” Hi said. “Don’t you think it, Rosa.”

“What is to stop him? We’re all in his power.”

“Not you,” Hi said. “He’s done something wicked and stupid, which won’t
prosper; you’ll see it won’t. Now about getting to Manuel. I don’t know
a word of Spanish, except Dios and si and the oaths those sailors told
me. Where can I get a horse, to begin with? I suppose all the livery
stables will be closed?”

“You’ll get no horse here.”

“Even though I’m English?”

“No. This city is isolated. No trains, no horses. You’ll have to walk to
a place called Anselmo, about fifteen miles from here.”

“You mean, out past the de Leyvas’ place? That Anselmo?”

“Yes. There are two White brothers there, the Elenas, George and
William, horse-breeders. They will give you horses and put you in the
way to get relays further west. There are two ways of getting to
Anselmo; one, by the road, past the de Leyvas’ place, which you’d have
to walk; the other is, to take a boat down the bay, nine or ten miles,
to the place La Boca, where you could probably hire a horse or trap and
ride or drive there.”

“How would I take a boat?”

“At the pier there are scores of market-boats. Ask for Pedro Ruiz and
ask him to take you to La Boca. If Pedro isn’t there, dozens of others
will be; they’re mostly Italians.”

“I’ll make them understand,” Hi said. “Will they let me down the pier?”

“Yes, if you aren’t stopped beforehand.”

“The boat way seems the quicker,” he said. “I’ll try the boat way. But
look here, Rosa, they’ll surely watch the boats for people trying to get
away.”

“They may, but that and the road are the only ways to Anselmo.”

“Well, we’d better try both. Why not send my old English murderer from
Medinas? He’d go like a shot and you could trust him absolutely.”

“That is an idea, Hi. I suppose he can ride?”

“He was a stable-lad in his youth. He was even a jockey once, of sorts,
I think they said, but he was warned off for something or other. I know
he sounds awful; so he is, as well as a little mad, but I know that you
could trust him.”

“You say that he is mad? Could he remember a message?”

“Yes.”

“All he’ll have to remember is, ‘Reds have seized Carlotta: come at
once’; that and the address, ‘Don Manuel, Encinitas.’”

“He’ll have to know more than that,” Hi said. “He’ll have to get the
horses out of these Elena people, at Anselmo.”

“Our code word, _Dorothea_, will do that.”

“And suppose the Elenas aren’t there?”

“George or William must be there.”

“Right, then; between us we’ll fix it. I say, this is exciting. You are
a brick to come to me for this.”

“If you knew what I think of you for taking it as you do.”

“I suppose,” Hi said, “I suppose there’s no means of telegraphing from
Anselmo to Don Manuel.”

“None. We’ve no telegraphs here, except along the railways, and no
railway at all across the central provinces. You’ll have to ride.”

“No means of telegraphing to anyone, in code, or something of that sort?
It would save so much time.”

“The telegraphs are all under censorship, no message would be sent.
There’s no telegraph within seventy miles of Encinitas, anyway.”

“It’ll be a long ride,” Hi said. “I wish I were more in trim for a long
ride. It will take three days.”

“Oh, Hi.”

“I might do it in two, with luck.”

“Oh, if you only can,” she said.

“Now how about you.”

“I’ll be all right.”

“I’m blest if you will be. I’ll see you home.”

“Oh, Hi; no.”

“Yes, I will.”

“No, no, Hi. I shan’t be stopped with my market basket and in this
dress. And by the Farola there is a short cut through the waste to our
garden.”

“I’ll see you there, then. I must. I’ve got to ask you scores of things
which I must know. When you’re reasonably safe, I’ll get to Medinas, see
my murderer off, and then come back to the pier and yell for Pedro
Ruiz.”

“Please God, the boats will be late this morning,” she said.

“Why?”

“If they come early, they go early; there may be no boat for you.”

“Golly.”

“There’s a lot to say ‘Golly’ about in this Republic.”

“There’s more in it than meets the eye,” he said. “I suppose you’ve got
no map of this city?”

“No. Why?”

“Can I get to Medinas from the pier without going back through the
city?”

“Yes, easily. There’s a road from the Farola to Medinas, on the line of
the old city ditch.”

“All right, then; that’s a weight off my chest. Our main task is to get
out of this hotel to the pier: if we can do that, we shall be fairly
clear. Will there be patrols on the roads outside the walls, or people
on the watch at La Boca and Anselmo?”

“Probably.”

“All right,” he said, to cheer her. “We’ll fix them. I suppose the
Elenas will know some English?”

“Not much; but if you say _Dorothea_ to them, they’ll make your next
course clear, even if they have to send a guide with you.”

“Good. I think I’ve got it all pretty straight. All right. I’m ready.
We’ll start, then. Oh, but wait one minute. I must get something out of
my trunk.”

Some hours before, when he had returned from Carlotta, he had pressed
her spray of hermosita between two sheets of the hotel blotting-paper,
which he had then laid away in the trunk. He now opened this precious
packet, broke off a leaf from the spray, and placed it in his
pocket-book; the rest he put back into the trunk. He then wrote a few
words to the hotel proprietor.

“I’m ready now,” he said. “I’ll leave this note to say that I’m coming
back, and want my room kept.”

“Oh, Hi,” she said, “I’ve brought no money.”

“I have got money enough,” Hi said, “but I have not got a revolver.
Father wouldn’t let me take one. I knew he knew nothing about it. Now we
had better have a story in case we’re stopped. We had better say that
your mother wanted me and that you had come to fetch me. They couldn’t
object to that. Where is your market basket? In the cellar?”

“No, in the hall.”

“We had better go out by the hall,” he said. “And I had better take no
baggage. Then they would ask no questions. If I were caught going out
with a bag, they would think I was shooting the moon. I have got some
handkerchiefs. That’s enough.”

“What will they think of my market basket?” she said. “They will think I
have come to steal the linen.”

“Leave it here,” Hi said.

“But I must have it to pass the gates.”

“Well, you can show that it’s empty,” he said. “We must chance it. Come
on.”

They crept out into the deserted corridor, where all was silent save for
a snorer in one of the near-by rooms. They crept to the stairs. All
seemed silent on the landing below. On the next floor they heard a child
wake up with a whimper. The coarse voice of a nurse from one of the
French-speaking islands called “Chocolat” to quiet it. As this failed
she made a testy reproof and turned grunting out of bed.

All seemed silent on the floor below. Rosa touched Hi’s arm at the
stairs.

“There’s a night porter asleep there,” she said, “on that sofa on the
landing.”

“He’s sound asleep,” Hi said. “Come on.”

On the third step from the bottom the porter had left a small tray with
glasses and a soda-water bottle. Hi trod upon this, so that both he and
it fell. The glasses broke, the soda-water bottle rolled on to the broad
uncarpeted steps which led to the ground floor. It fell on to the first
step, then on to the second, then on, step by step, making a noise like
“Keblonk, Keblonk” at each step. Hi sat on the mat at the stair-foot in
fits of laughter. Rosa stood beside him, giggling hysterically.

“Hark at the beastly thing going ‘Keblonk,’” he said.

With a little tinkle the bottle rolled itself still. The porter on the
sofa sneezed suddenly and sat up.

“Oh, for de Lord,” he said.

“For de Lord,” Hi said.

He and Rosa clutched each other, shaking with laughter.

“Oh, you lovely angels, keep away the flies,” said the porter and
settled himself to sleep again.

“Come along,” Hi whispered. “He’s asleep. We must slide down the
banisters of this flight. Don’t kick old Keblonk as you pass.”

All was dark on the ground floor, but far away some servant was already
sweeping. This was the only sound save the occasional crackle in the
wicker chairs, as though some ghost had sat down or arisen. In front of
them was the main entrance of the hotel, a glass barrier, broad steps
with deserted offices at each side, then the front doors. A light was
burning in the office to the left. Hi stole forward upon tip-toe.

“The night porter’s asleep in the office,” he whispered.

He stole through the glass doors and tried the front doors, which were
locked and the key not there.

“The key’s gone,” he whispered.

“It’s in the office, I expect,” she said.

He looked, but could not see it on the key hooks nor on the table.

“It must be somewhere here,” she said.

“I expect he’s got it in his pocket,” he whispered.

There came a little flop upon the floor. Rosa had knocked off a
time-table from the edge of the table. The man stirred in his sleep but
did not wake.

“If he’s got it in his trouser pocket,” Hi whispered, “or even in his
side pocket, we’re done.”

“Well, Hi,” she whispered, “come on down the back way through the
cellar. Besides, I have got to get my flower basket.”

“Oh, dash, I had forgotten the flower basket.”

“Hi,” Rosa said, “there’s someone coming.”

They edged out into the hall as some of the hall lights went up. A woman
with a broom came along the corridor. She took a good look at them, and
Hi said, “It’s all right, thanks. I’m English.”

She seemed to think that it was not quite all right. She made a gesture
to show Hi that he could rouse the porter.

“Si, si,” Hi said, “but it’s absolutely all right, thanks.”

“Are you looking for the key?” she asked in English. “The key is here on
this palm.”

She unhooked a key from one of the stubs of the palm tree, fitted it to
the lock and opened the door. She gave a searching glance at Rosa. She
closed the door behind them on the instant.

The breeze was coming in from the sea bitterly cold. They looked up and
down the deserted street. They saw no sign of life except a cat on the
other side of the road.

“Come on,” Hi said, “down to the water-front.”

In the darkness of the cross roads a mounted policeman, drawn into the
shadows, watched them approach without making a sign. When they were
within a few yards of him he put his horse suddenly across their path.

“It’s all right. I’m English,” Hi said.

The man seemed to have orders not to molest foreigners. He drew his
horse back and jerked with his hand for them to pass. Perhaps it was a
guilty conscience which made them think that he stared hard at Rosa.
Anyhow he let them pass.

On the water-front the tide of life had begun to flow to the quays. Men
and women were going to work that had to be done, whatever rebellion
came. They saw the bright light at the pier end.

“It’s there,” Rosa whispered, “that the market-boats come.”

Two men who were slouching in front of them paused to light cigarettes.
They watched Hi and Rosa as they passed and made remarks evidently very
offensive, which made Rosa catch her breath.

“Come on. Don’t stop,” Rosa whispered.

Colour was all over the eastern heaven and touching the upper roofs and
spires.

“Hi,” Rosa said, when they had gone a little distance, “we shall never
be able to do it. I am seen to be a woman and there is a patrol in the
streets stopping people.”

“Where?”

“There in front.”

About a hundred yards in front of them there was an interruption in the
flow of people. They could see the gleam of helmets beyond the blackness
of the crowd, which grew greater as men and women flocked up to it.
Plainly the police or troops were examining all who were going that way.

“Hi,” Rosa said, “I can’t face the police in this dress. It’s very
silly, but I shall faint.”

“Hold up,” Hi said. “It will be perfectly all right. We will get down to
that barge on the beach there and you can pin your cloak round you for a
skirt.”

Within a stone’s throw from the water-front was a green barge, which Hi
had noticed on the day of his landing. She was lying on her bilge with
the butts of her timbers sticking out like bones. In the shelter of this
wreck Rosa pinned her cloak as a skirt and made her hat look less manly.
After this they marched into the crowd, which closed up behind them as
others arrived. It was a silent crowd of men and women not fully awake.
One or two voices asked, “What are they stopping us for?” Some said,
“Dogana,” or “Search of suspects,” or “Search of the accursed Whites,
the murderers.”

The light grew upon the faces at each instant, the crowd gathered and
the delay continued.

“What are they stopping us for?”

“Close up, brothers.”

“Who are you shoving?”

“It’s not me that’s shoving.”

“This way for the harem. Get your money ready.”

“The whistle will be gone. We shall be fined half a peseta.”

“What are they stopping us for?”

No one could answer that question.

Hi could make out that several times a minute one or two people in front
were allowed to pass on. At every such passing the crowd surged forward
till they were all jammed up together, feeling breathless and inclined
to faint. They could hear a kind of catechism going on at the barrier,
voices bullying and voices submissive.

“Why can’t they let us pass? What are they asking?”

The crowd was not to know why they were stopped. After they had annoyed
some hundreds of people with it, the police suddenly removed the barrier
and told the people that they might get along out of it. The crowd
slowly surged forward among growls of “Keeping us waiting all this time
and in the end they didn’t want us. Now we shall be fined a peseta for
being late.”

They passed through the city gates, to the open space where the market
folk had cheered the Piranhas the day before.

“There is the pier, Hi,” Rosa said. “I can get home through that waste
piece, the old graveyard. You go up that gully to the right, to
Medinas.”

“All right. Good luck. I’ll fetch Manuel.”

“God bless you, Hi.”

“You, too. My love to your mother. And good luck. And cheer up.”

She nodded, not having more words; she turned out of the stream of
workers into the old graveyard of the town and did not look back.

As Hi set off for Medinas, he looked back several times after her, till
she had disappeared.

“She’s got some pluck,” he thought. “I don’t think she’ll be stopped
now, going that way.”

His own way led through a road which having once been the city ditch,
was still a city dump and refuse pit under the walls. On the left hand
of the refuse were shacks and sties of wood, for pigs, cows, horses and
fowls; though men lived in them, too. The road was an unpaven track in a
kind of gulley between the dump and the sheds. It was in a mucky state
at that time from the recent rains and the habits of the market people.
It stank, it was littered with tins and stalks, rats were rummaging
among the garbage, and pariah dogs with the mange were scraping against
the sides of the sties. However, no men were abroad in it nor any sign
of a patrol. In about twelve minutes he was in Medinas.

For some minutes he had noticed a glow upon the city buildings, which he
had thought to be the dawn. He now found that it came from the red-hot
shell of what had been the de Leyva palace, which had been burnt since
midnight. A good many Medinas people were grubbing in the embers for
what they could find. Others were carrying away what they had already
found. A heap of things of all sorts, armour, pictures, marbles,
bronzes, furniture, porcelain, curtains, clothes, cushions, musical
instruments, antiques, books, and portfolios, which had been looted
before the fire took hold, were being sold to all comers by a ruffian
with a big voice, who bellowed aloud his bargains, joked, tossed the
money received to a guard of Reds, and often gave away what he could not
readily sell. He was in the act of selling a bronze female torso when Hi
came up. Hi noticed among the crowd the broad-faced picture-dealer who
had been rude two days before on the water-front. This man winked at the
auctioneer that the bronze should be set aside for him. The auctioneer
stopped his obscene remarks and laid it aside.