Some hours after midnight, Hi woke aching with cramps and dripping with
sweat: it was oppressively hot and still: all the forest was holding its
breath, as though about to do something dreadful. There was a
deliberation, even about the droppings from the trees. “Golly,” Hi
thought, “it feels as though the earth were going to open.” It was pitch
dark in the forest: the mist had gone from the trees, yet there was no
glimmer of any star: the moon, being young, was long since gone. The
stew of air gave Hi the feeling that a heaven of cast-iron was
descending bodily upon the tree-tops to squeeze the earth flat.

The suspense of waiting for the heaven to fall was broken suddenly by
thunder, rain and wind, all rising in violence until, at about an hour
after dawn, they reached a pitch such as Hi had not believed to be
possible. Then, while the forest was crashing with falling boughs and
trees, and the air all vehement water and flying fragments, the heart
suddenly went out of the storm; the darkness from above rolled away to
leeward, showing the sun. The wind, which had been a thing of death, at
once became a thing of healing: the storm was over: nature was freed
from prison: Hi could go on.

He could go on; but he had lost another complete day and the going was
changed. He was in a world of mud like the first chaos. All the wood was
littered with thousands of young leaves, twigs and caterpillars. The
millioned life, which had thrust at the first rains, had been washed to
a smalm by these last. The ground of the wood had been so worked by the
rain that it looked and trod like a ploughed field in a wet November. He
rode out of the wood, all streaming as he was, towards the gulley of the
pass. For one glorious minute, he saw all things glitter in the sun: the
warmth beat upon him like life itself; then the rain began again: not
heavy rain, but a steady trickle.

By this time, he was in the ravine of the pass into which every gulley,
meuse and cranny, as well as the gashes cut by the storm, had been
draining for many hours. A mess as of a dozen ploughed fields, of
different colours of clay, had been washed into the pass, plastered
there and sprinkled with boulders. Here and there boulders too big to
shift had stood as obstructions to the floods. Near these, small
boulders and ridges of rotten stone had been washed or flung so as to
form moraines or dams across the hollow of the valley. Sometimes these
dams held pools of water many feet in depth. All the pass rang with the
noise of falling water.

He went on, cold and soaked; on foot in the mud, leading a miserable
horse through pools, morasses and over stones. The rain fell steadily,
and there was no road nor signpost, nothing but the direction of the
gulley down the hill, the noise of water, sometimes birds, but never
beast nor man.

“And the worse of it is,” he thought, “that I must be coming to that
place where I was to turn off, if I was to turn off. That was what he
meant, I think: that I had to go to the left of a crossing. I only hope
that it will clear before I reach the place.”

It did not clear: it went on raining.

“This is what father meant,” he thought, “when he said, ‘You’ll thank me
before the year’s out for sending you to a land of the sun.’”

He wondered much into what kind of country he had come, for he could see
so little, except the faces of rocks all streaming, then mist, then
folds of hill, from which streamers of rain came out and passed.
Presently he came to trees which had hard leaves that clacked: his teeth
clacked in sympathy. Not long after this, he came to a bridge, not over
but in a torrent; and here he had to blindfold his horse to get him
across. On the other side of the bridge, at a little distance above the
waters, was a stone with an inscription in Latin:

                           Pray for the souls
                     Of Espinar, Gamarro, Velarde.
                             Drowned here.

He wondered as he looked back at the bridge, with the water swirling
across it between the balusters of the parapets, how he had ever
crossed. He patted his horse “for being such a sport.” He judged that
this river must be the upper waters of the river at La Boca; but any
sense of direction was long since gone from him: he did not know where
he was.

Memory of his friend’s direction, that there was no road to the right,
made him edge to his left, whenever there was an opening. He was not on
any track or trail now, but in mud or scrub among the clouds; sometimes
rocks loomed out at him, sometimes trees. When he halted, as he
sometimes did, to shout, in the hope of an answer, he had no answer,
save the noise of the rain that wept as though all hope were gone.
“Well, if I go on, I must reach somewhere,” he said. “I can’t go back,
even if I wanted to, because the river’s rising, and nothing would take
me over that bridge again, with the water worse than it was. One good
thing about this rain is, that there won’t be any forest fever yet,
since the rains aren’t at an end.”

It was consolation of a kind; but he was as sick and shaking from cold
and misery as most fevers could have made him. He noticed after a time
that he was going uphill again. After some hours of this he came into a
forest of giant trees. There was no undergrowth and little light in this
forest. He rode in a gloom full of sighing like voices and full of
dropping like footsteps. The rain seeped in films and streaks through
this wood: mists of it paused in places, like ghosts looking at him from
behind trees. Sudden gusts sent rushes of water to the ground with the
noise of the steps of beasts. It was in this wood that the rain began to
slacken.

At first, he thought that this was only a seeming, due to the shelter of
the trees; but soon the mists of the rain cleared from the boles, which
at once became like gods for bulk and silence. Soon the birds and
insects reappeared; ants came to forage among what the rain had brought
to earth; ticks fell from the trees; the big red and yellow fungi at the
tree roots unrolled themselves into enormous spiders which waved their
front legs at Hi in a terrifying rhythm, as though they were trying to
hypnotise him. They did it slowly, with their eyes fixed upon him. They
seemed to be repeating:

                           Fee, Fi, Fo, Fum,
                  I smell the blood of an Englishman.

Hi could see no tracks anywhere on that wet earth, but he realised that
his horse was leading him somewhere.

“Good old boy,” he said, “you know more about these parts than I do. If
you can bring me to any comfort I’ll be grateful.”

A long time passed before comfort appeared. It came with the brightening
of the light in the gaps among the tree-tops: the very sight of this was
warmth to him. “The sun,” he said, “I’ll do it yet, if I can only find
someone to direct me.” The horse went straight ahead till at about two
in the afternoon, as Hi guessed, he paused and whinnied, and horses
whinnied in reply.

There, at a little distance in front of him, on a level patch, where the
trees, being small, had been easily cleared, was a hut or shack with
smoke rising from the chimney. It was a white man’s, not an Indian’s
hut, because it was sided and ended with unbarked planks and roofed with
shingles. It was old and falling to pieces. It must have been deserted
for years, Hi thought, yet smoke was rising from it. Beside it was a
long, ruinous pent-house or shed, with a torn canvas crib or manger
running along its wall. “I suppose it is an outlying camp,” Hi thought,
“or some old winter house for the timber cutters; anyhow, thank Heaven,
there are people there.” He could see two pale faces peering round the
half-opened door at him. When he lifted his eyes from the house, he saw,
at a little distance, two tethered horses pausing from their grass to
stare at him. As he advanced from his halting place, the faces at the
door moved forward, so that he could make out a man and a woman. The man
advanced to a pace beyond the door. He was a short, fresh-coloured man,
with fair hair, and a small sandy moustache. What Hi noticed more
particularly was that the man looked guilty, as though he had been
caught in the act of something. “He’s scared at something,” Hi thought.
When the man saw that Hi was only a boy, a relief came over his face, a
relief so great that it made him laugh unpleasantly.

The woman had drawn back out of sight inside the shed, where (from the
sound) she seemed to be doing something with bedclothes, making a bed or
packing something in blankets. Hi thought: “There’s something fishy
here. I’ve caught them in the act at something. And it must be pretty
bad or he wouldn’t be in such a funk.”

“Is this the way to Anselmo?” Hi asked. The man looked blank. Hi
repeated the question, more than once; after a while the woman came to
the door.

“Anselmo?” she asked.

“Si, si, Anselmo.”

“Por aqui, Anselmo.”

She was a willowy woman, all slink and gleam, with a speck in one eye
and something swollen in lip and nose.

“This is, then, the way to Anselmo,” Hi said. “La via a Anselmo? The
calle or route a l’Anselmo?”

“Si, si,” the woman said, nodding.

The first wish of the couple, to get the stranger away from the hut,
without letting him peep inside, now changed to another wish: a strange
look passed between them, which made Hi uneasy. The man had enormous
fore-arm muscles: his right fore-arm had been bruised or scraped quite
recently. In his trousers he had a gun pocket which plainly had been
used for a gun, though no gun was there at the moment.

“Por aqui, Anselmo,” the man said, taking Hi’s bridle and turning the
horse away from the shack.

“He show you,” the woman said in English.

“Is it far to Anselmo?” Hi asked.

The man said he could not understand.

“I don’t understand, either,” Hi thought, “what you two have been up to,
here in the forest. You aren’t living here; you only came here an hour
ago; because there are no tracks to the door, except brand new ones. Why
do you two come here in the rains to pack something in blankets? What
were you packing in blankets?” What indeed?

The man led him past the two tethered horses into the forest on the
trail by which the horses had come there an hour or so before. Hi had
noticed horse tracks ever since he was a child: he noticed suddenly the
tracks of a third horse in the soft earth. Three horses had come towards
the shack that morning: the third had gone off suddenly into the forest.
Why?

The man led on, saying nothing, but thinking the more. Glancing back, Hi
saw the woman moving from the shack into the forest. “I wonder if I’m
going to be led round to meet her,” he thought. “And if so, why?”
Glancing forward, Hi saw that the man was looking at him with a strange
expression.

“I believe they’re up to no good,” he thought. “I’ll get out of it.”

For a moment, he did not know how to get out of it, nor how he could
manage without a guide if he did. Then the certainty that this couple
were wicked urged him to act. Something said in his brain, “Behind that
door they had a lad like you, whom they had murdered.” A picture formed
in his brain of the woman behind the door, rolling a body in a blanket.
Whenever she rolled the body face up, the face which showed was his own.
“It may be all imagination,” he thought, “but I’ll go on alone.”

He checked the horse, with a sign to the man: he did not know what on
earth he was to do next.

“Dis donc,” he said in a mixed speech. “Esta Anselmo loin d’ici? Anselmo
. . . sabe? Anselmo, est il bien loin? La ville d’Anselmo, est il far?”

The man nodded his head and grinned, as though to reassure him.
Something in the man’s face, the pouchy look under the eyes, reminded Hi
of one of the portraits of Henry VIII: it looked evil from evil done and
evil planning. The man turned to his path and seemed about to lead the
horse off the trail. “I daresay,” Hi thought, “the woman is the shot:
she has the revolver. He’ll lead me round to her and she’ll pot me from
behind a bush. Yet he’s as strong as an ox. I can’t hit him or break
from him without getting the worst of it. What can I do?”

The voice in his brain said, “Scare him”; but he did not seem to be an
easy man to scare. “I could make the horse shy,” he thought, “though if
I do that, I may be bucked off myself.”

“Dis donc,” he said again, “sont ils beaucoup de guardias civiles in
Anselmo? Moi, je ne veux pas le police. Sabe? Comprende Usted? Police?
Muchas guardias me muchas afraido.”

The man said something in his sullen way that all would be well, better
than well: again he turned to his task, leading the horse off the trail.

“Things are getting to be critical,” Hi thought. “I must try a scare.”

He was about to try some sudden startling of the horse, when the woman
called out something. The man stopped and shouted in reply: from the
woman’s answer Hi made out that she wanted the man for some reason, to
do something which she could not do. “Wants him to load the revolver,
probably,” he thought. The man seemed vexed at the request: he seemed to
ask if she could not manage as she was: she answered “No.”

The man growled in his throat. “Bah. Las mujeres.” He let go the rein,
with a look of threat and misgiving. He said something to Hi, which
seemed to mean: “You stay here a minute: I’ll be back directly.” He
strode off in the direction from which the woman had called. Hi let him
go about ten yards, then he turned his horse, and urged him up. The man
turned and called out to him to stop. Glancing back, as the horse got
into his stride, Hi saw the man running back to where the horses were
tethered.

“The brute’s going to chase me,” he thought. “And he’ll track me, even
if I dodge him. The worst of it is, that I don’t know whether I am
headed for Anselmo or the new Jerusalem; but I must come out somewhere
if I keep on. This forest can’t go on for ever.”

This was true; but he had a memory of his father saying, “The forest
goes all the way to Cualimaçu on the Matulingas, 1,500 miles if its an
inch.” If he happened to be heading for Cualimaçu, his journey to
Anselmo was likely to be protracted. For the moment, however, his
thought was to get away from these people.

Almost at once, his horse shied from a pool of blood where men had
trodden within the hour. It was surrounded by big blue butterflies as
greedy for salt as English butterflies for honey. “That’s where the
murder was,” he thought, “and those two will follow me because they know
that I know.”

After an hour, however, when he halted for the third time to listen for
the sound of pursuit, he felt sure that he was not pursued. He rode on
slowly through the forest, leaving the direction to the horse, who now
seemed to know where he was going. As far as he could tell, in the gloom
of under the trees, he went westwards but not directly, for the thorn
thickets forced him now in one direction, now in another.

Presently the horse cocked his ears at something and challenged. Hi
halted, expecting and fearing to see some wild beast, but in a few
seconds he saw that there was a horse in front of him, standing still
among the tree trunks, watching him, some fifty yards ahead. He was
almost invisible at first, for a horse will fade into any background or
dimness; as he became distinct, Hi saw that he was saddled and bridled,
though not mounted.

“That is it,” he thought, “the brute has headed me off. This is the
murderer. He has slipped off his horse there, and is somewhere among the
trees waiting to pot me. Even if I dodge him, there’ll still be Mrs. Now
my only chance is to dodge.”

He was about to dodge, knowing the futility of dodging, when the horse
strode out of his covert into view. He was a darker horse than the two
big sorrels tethered near the shack. He had a running cut on his side
and a saddle twisted underneath him. He came ramping from his place,
full of power and alarm. “By George, it’s the dead man’s horse,” Hi
cried, “and what a beauty. I’ll have him.” However, the horse had been
terrified once that day; Hi’s coming set him off again full tilt into
the wilderness, with his stirrups flying from flank to foreleg or
swinging back to clank under his belly. Presently, the girth buckle
broke, the saddle fell and made him stumble, but he recovered, shook it
clear and strode off into the woods.

Soon after his stridings had ceased to beat in the ears, the air above
began to sigh with the homings of countless birds which settled on the
trees with cryings and shriekings. Then suddenly there came a darkening
all over the forest, as though the light had been turned off at a tap.
Hi knew what this meant. His father had often told him that when the sun
went behind Mount Melchior the light went off, so that you couldn’t see
to shoot. “Now here I am with the day gone,” he thought. “It will soon
be dark, and I have not yet started for Anselmo. Buck up, old horse, and
get me out of the forest.”

The horse seemed to be bound for somewhere; but after another hour of
going, when it was beginning to be dark, he was still in the forest. He
could see no gleam of open country nor hear anywhere any noise of men.
When he halted to shout, he had no answer, except the sudden silence of
birds and beasts. He was there in the depths, out of the reach of his
kind, as alone as a man can be.

Perhaps in the past the horse had had some happiness in that part of the
forest, which led him thither now. When it was almost too dark to go
further, he bore his rider into a space where Indians had made a cassava
patch by burning off the trees. Indians and cassava shrubs were long
since gone, but the space was still clear of forest. In that patch of
ground, some eighty by fifty yards across, there was tall grass of a
bright yellow colour between two and three feet high. About this, the
trees grew to less than their usual size, being (as it seemed) bowed
down by the weight of the creepers. Over the patch was the dome or depth
of violet sky in which there were already stars.

The horse thrust into the patch and fell to eating greedily. Hi
dismounted to look about him; he found that there was water at one edge
of the patch.

“I’d better stay here for the night,” he thought, “because I’m lost. In
the morning perhaps I may be able to find a way out. If I could only see
the sun or Polaris I would be out in no time.”

He unsaddled his horse, rubbed him well down with grass, and having
haltered him, hitched him to a tree. He gathered him some armsfull of
the grass, and talked to him, as he ate, for comfort.

All through his ride he had not tasted food, because of something he had
said to himself at breakfast, “I hope my next meal may be at Anselmo.”
Now, when he saw plainly that he could not reach Anselmo for many hours
to come, he drew his food from his bags. The rain had made a paste of
the bread, but he scraped some of the paste together and ate it with
some sausage; he drank of the water of the pan, which smacked of the
marsh. He reckoned that he still had one tolerable meal of paste left in
his bag, and one good feed of oats for the horse. These things he
resolved to keep in reserve. Under the paste of the bread he found five
silver pesetas, which Anton or the girl had hidden for him.

He was much touched by this.

But his main feeling was one of overwhelming anxiety for his friends who
were depending on him. “Oh, they must feel that I have failed them,” he
thought. “They must have sent someone else. If this has happened to
’Zeke as well, God help Carlotta. God help her.”

A strange whiteness of light glimmered high up in the trees: in a few
moments it died, leaving all things strangely dark.

“Here is the night,” he thought. “Oh, it is lonely. This is my third
night away and I haven’t even started yet. But I’ll get my bearings and
start at dawn. I’ll get through somehow.”

The stars deepened overhead: the birds lapsed into silence: what noises
there had been in the wood became suddenly stealthier. Little bright
burnings came and went in the air as the fireflies began. Hi gathered
more grass for the horse, tried his tether, and then made himself a nest
of grass in which he could not sleep, because of the cold.

During the morning of this, the third day, of Hi’s journey, Ezekiel Rust
came at a gallop to the house at Encarnacion, where Don Manuel watched
beside the dead body of his mother. Being admitted to Don Manuel, he
delivered his message, with what news he could add from the underworld
of Medinas. Don Manuel waited for half an hour, while his mother’s body
was buried; then he rode to San Jacinto city, to intercept any other
messenger coming from the capital. By the early afternoon he was
summoning all his friends and adherents in the Western Provinces to come
with arms, fodder and horses to a rendezvous east of the river. At about
the time when Hi was settling to his nest, Don Manuel’s first supporter,
Pascual Mestas, came in to the rendezvous with twenty men from Santiago.
Ezekiel Rust was given a bed in the inn at San Jacinto, with the promise
that he should not want again in life.