While they waited in the drive for the caleche a party of Pitubas, under
a negro who wore a green feather in his hat, rode up to them. He saluted
Rosa, and presented a warrant. Rosa read it, called Pablo, and gave him
some directions. Pablo led the troops to the stables, from which they
removed all the horses, including Carlotta’s team. The Senator’s horse,
being old, they left. When they had secured these horses, they rode off
with them to another White house further down the bay.

“They’re taking the horses,” Rosa explained. “They always begin by
taking our horses. That’s the first danger sign.”

“But good heaven,” Hi said. “Why?”

“‘Military reasons,’ they say in their warrant; but they really mean, so
that the Whites shall not communicate with each other.”

“Will you get them back?”

“No, probably not. You see, they’ve only gone to the White house down
the bay; not to those two Red houses. This may make you understand our
local politics a little. It shows you Santa Barbara as she is. It isn’t
the Paradise it looks, is it?”

“It’s got angels in it,” he said.

“Hi,” she said, “I’m so anxious about her.”

“She is safe at her brother’s, surely?”

“She ought not to have gone there.”

“Why ever not?”

“I don’t know, but she ought not. I knew it when I saw the chaise had
not brought her. She has done the wrong thing.”

“I will take a note to her if you like,” Hi said, “and bring her back
here, too, if she wishes.”

“She won’t come back here,” Rosa said. “Nor could she, after dark, with
these patrols in the streets; but if you will take a letter for me, I
shall be grateful. The de Leyvas live outside the West Gate, off the
Anselmo Road, in a part called Medinas.”

“Medinas Close is where my old murderer lives,” Hi said.

“There are fearful rookeries close to the palace,” Rosa said. “They are
all owned by the de Leyvas.”

She wrote a letter, which she gave to Hi to take.

“If she wants to send any message,” Hi said, “of course, I will bring it
back at once.”

“Hi,” she said, “you really are a dear.” She caught him by the neck and
kissed his forehead.

“Somewhat rougey,” Hi thought, as he mopped his brow, while he drove
with Don Inocencio. “But an awfully good-hearted sort, Rosa.”