Medinas Close looked marvellous in that light of nearly dawn, helped out
by dying lamps. Its well of tall, mean, narrow tenements, built on a
slope, about a triangle of grassless earth, needed some murderous
half-light to give it its quality. At the entrance to the Close an
imbecile woman, with the face of a corpse, held her hand for alms. At
the entrance of No. 41, black as the mouth of a cave, two little boys,
who talked through their noses as though their throats were rotted away,
were sharing what they had stolen from the burning. Most of the Medinas
tenants had been picking plums from that same snapdragon. In the well of
the Close were some chairs and other furniture which had been pitched
down and smashed, because they would not readily go through the narrow
doors.

“On the third floor,” Hi said to himself, “the middle room of the three,
if I don’t have my throat cut on the way.” He went into that black cave,
which stank of rat and mouse; he struck himself a light so that he might
see the stairs, and came at once on a woman and a man clasped at the
stair-foot. He saw the woman’s eyes, like the eyes in a skull. The man
detached himself from her; he stank of wine, she of musk. “You like to
see my sister?” he said, thickly to Hi.

“No.”

“Three pesetas.”

“No.”

“Two pesetas.”

“No.”

“You like to buy a nice watch, very cheap, very good?” The woman, who
had caught some glimpse of Hi, said something in a low voice, which made
the man stand aside to let Hi pass to the next floor, where a man was
beating his wife in the intervals of a sermon. The morning light gleamed
a little on to this landing from a room which had no door. Up above was
the third floor, much darker, being lit only with a taper.

Some weeks before this a man had been murdered at the head of the stairs
there. The dwellers of 41, having scruples about the murder, had placed
upon the wall a coloured print of the Virgin, to whom they lit a taper
each night. This taper now showed Hi the three doors of the landing; he
knocked gently on the middle door.

After knocking a second time, he was aware of a tenseness in the room
within, though no one answered. At a third knock, he felt, rather than
heard, other doors in the tenement softly opened, while unseen eyes took
stock of him. Someone inside the room was moving something: “putting
something under the bed,” he thought. A board dropped with a clatter,
then a chair (so it seemed) was jammed against the door from within,
then a woman’s cautious voice asked, “Who is it?”

“Señor Rust,” Hi said, in a low voice, “Señor Rust.”

She did not let him in. He heard her moving about inside, with queer
little clicking noises as though she were snapping on some pairs of
stays (which indeed she was).

“Señor Rust,” he repeated, “Señor Rust.”

The lamp in the room, which had been turned down, now turned up; the
door opened a little; a short, sharp, elderly dwarf of a woman stared at
him, and motioned him to come in. He went into a hot little lamp-lit
room, where ’Zeke stood stock still, fumbling with his hat, beside the
bed. The woman bolted the door carefully behind him. She had a skin like
parchment, coloured like old ivory. She looked at him out of sharp,
black, beady eyes which missed nothing. Her head trembled a little; her
long green ear-rings waggled and clicked. She looked like a gimlet about
to pierce. Hi knew, without any telling, that he had come at a ticklish
time, when the two were appraising loot from the burning. His knock had
been mistaken for the knock of the police. Something had been stuffed
under the floor and a mat drawn over the place: ’Zeke was now standing
on the mat.

The woman asked him in Spanish about his health, adding that for her own
part she asked nothing better from God, since she was ever better after
the rains, which, as it was well known, drew away from the air we
breathe many most pestilential vapours. Hi replied in English that he
was afraid that he came at a very inconvenient time.

“Rust,” he said, “could you take a message for me, and be away, perhaps,
for some days?”

“Yes, Master Highworth,” ’Zeke said, “I daresay.”

“Starting at once?”

“Where would it be to, Master Highworth?”

“Could we speak out of doors somewhere?”

“It’s a bit unsettled out of doors, sir. We could slip into the church
for a bit.”

“Let us go there, then.”

’Zeke said something with gestures to Isabella, who seemed suspicious
and not well pleased. She questioned ’Zeke several times before she let
them out. She then followed him to the stair-head with questions, which
’Zeke put from him with gestures and ejaculations. She was not satisfied
with these replies, because she went back to the room, growling.
Glancing upwards as he entered the Close, Hi saw her head and shoulders
craned from the window to see where they were going.

In the almost complete darkness of the church, Hi told ’Zeke what was
wanted.

“I been to ’Carnacion,” he said. “It was there I went with my bull,
where the rabbits were. It was this Don Manuel owned my bull; only I
didn’t go so much by land, as by sea, to Port ’Toche. I know the way to
Anselmo; it’s by the Foxes Inn. And I know the Mr. Elenas at Anselmo,
Mr. George and Mr. William, only they don’t pronounce it like that. They
breed horses, the Mr. Elenas.

“I did a job of work for the Misters Elenas one time. You see, Mr.
Highworth, they got a stallion one time; my word, he were a horse, only
he wasn’t what we would call a stallion, you understand, being for
draught. Not a shire horse, neither, but one of they French sort,
really. ‘Whicker,’ he went, and ‘Whicker,’ he went, oh, it was a treat
to hear him: down he would go and up he come; and all in play, really:
only he hate his grooms, Mr. Highworth, one after the other. It was all
in play, really, only they didn’t understand him, that was what it was,
really. You know he couldn’t abide velvet, this velvet stuff the grooms
wear. You’ve heard of the red rag to a bull? Well, it was the same with
him, only velvet. That was all it was. When I showed ’em, they left off
this velvet, then he didn’t eat them, except, maybe, now and then a
pinch and that. And is that all I’m to say to the Misters Elenas and to
Mr. Manuel, just _Dorothea_, and he’s to come at once?”

“Yes, that’s all. How soon could you reach Anselmo?”

“Three hours and that. But I’ll get a horse out along the road, maybe.”

“It’s a long way to Encarnacion,” Hi said.

“I like a bit of sport, when I get a horse like these country ones
that’s got meat on the ribs.”

“You’ll hurry all you can, won’t you? People’s lives depend on it.”

“Dammy, Mr. Highworth, I’ll go like your old grandfather, and like what
the old gentleman, old Mr. Ridden done.”

“Thank you.”

“I suppose it’s all right, Master Highworth?”

“Yes, it’s all right.”

“These foreigners aren’t like us, most of the time. They got this
devil-worship and all sorts. Now a man likes to know what’s what and
that. That’s only fair. But it’s these yellow devils makes them not go
above board. They brought in the yellows to rule the whites; it’s that
causes all the trouble.”

“That’s the cause of the trouble.”

“Well, I’ll do my best, Mr. Highworth.”

“Thank you. I can’t thank you enough.”

“Nothing I like better, really, than a bit of sport. I was having
difficulty, if you understand me, Master Highworth; but then first I met
you and now comes this other job. I never had so much luck at one time
before, except that once at the races; and then I was cheated of it.”

Hi gave him some money for expenses, thanked him and urged him to go.

“Not by the door we came in by, Mr. Highworth,” he said. “That would
never do. Them that see you go in may watch for you out.”

They were near the High Altar as he spoke. The door by which they had
entered the church was opened: someone crept into the church. Hi saw the
snub-nosed profile of Isabella motionless for an instant, while she
sought in the darkness for her prey. ’Zeke on the instant plucked him
through a curtain to a swing-door and thence to a lane.

“We dodge the Close this way,” he said, “and I’ll be back in a week or a
bit better. And that will be all right, Mr. Highworth; and I thank you,
sir, I’m sure, very kindly. And I wish you a happy Christmas, sir,
though I know it’s a long time to wait.”

He set off as he finished speaking, in the shambling run with much
bending of the leg which old Bill Ridden called “the poachers’ trot.” Hi
had often seen old men of the ’Zeke kind running in that way on winter
mornings when the hounds moved off to covert. He himself set off at once
by the old city ditch to the pier: it was almost full morning. He
wondered whether there would be any boat for him.

He also wondered, with some misgivings, about poor old Ezekiel. The
phrase, “He never had so much luck at one time before,” smote him to the
heart. It might not be much luck; it might be deadly; it certainly would
be dangerous, to go off on this errand when the Reds were out. “I’ve
taken him from his wife, too,” he thought. “However, she’s no chicken.”
As he went on, he wondered whether Isabella might not have seen, chased
and caught her husband: in which case the message would not go. Or
suppose the Foxes Inn proved too much for him? “I must chance all that,”
he thought. “He’s as likely to get through as I am.”

Thinking these things, he came out of the ditch into the colour and life
of the racing of the carts to market from the Farola, with fish and
fruit. These carts were light, open lorries, each drawn by two horses,
driven by natives, who stood bare-armed, cloaked with coloured serapes,
singeing their lips with the sucked stubs of cigarettes across which
they cursed their horses. The workers scattered from before them as they
raced. The horses’ hooves struck fire, the drivers leaned on the reins,
beat with their sticks, and screamed:—

“Ar-re. Ar-re, sons of malediction.”

“Accursed be thy fool mare of a mother.”

“Dog of a Pablo, give room.”

“Ay, ay, ay, we bring fish into the city.”

All the carts swayed into each other yet did not touch. They swerved
together as the road narrowed for the gate and so disappeared. Hi turned
from the open plaza on to the pier. It was then a few minutes after six
o’clock.