Hi had planned to learn “enough Spanish to rub along with” on the voyage
out, but fate disposed of this plan. He was seasick till after Lisbon;
then they started cricket; then, by chance, he met the third engineer,
who was as fond of cog-wheels as himself. After this, he passed most of
his time either in the third engineer’s cabin or in the engine-room. He
learned no Spanish whatever. “You’ll not need it,” the third engineer
said, “they’re very intelligent people: they’ll make out what you want.”

Ten mornings later Hi was roused from sleep by his cabin steward.

“The dawn is just breaking, Mr. Ridden,” he said. “We are just entering
the outer harbour now.”

Hi turned out on deck in his pyjamas; he saw before him the promised
land of Santa Barbara about which he had thought so much. It was still
dim, close in shore. A big light was near at hand to his right; a small
revolving light blinked far away to the left. In between, in the arc of
the bay, were the lights of the city and of the ships at anchor. The
city itself was little more than a smudge against a darkness. Far beyond
the city, in a line like an army, were the high Sierras of the Three
Kings. Their peaks rose up out of the clouds like mountains in another
world. As they were now catching the dawn they seemed made of jewels.
Mount Gaspar was golden. Mount Baltazar was like a bubble of blood, and
Mount Melchior a blue and evil finger glistening. As Hi watched, amazed
by the beauty of the scene, colour began to come upon the bay. He saw
away to his left an enormous expanse of shallow water, over which
strange birds, such as he had never seen, were now passing from their
night ashore.

“You see those birds?” said the fourth officer of the _Recalde_ beside
him. “They’re bobacherry birds. You always see them working their lower
jaws as though to get the cherry in. It’s a pretty place, Santa Barb, of
a morning like this.”

He passed away to get the watch to the washing of the decks; Hi remained
staring at the shore.

“I had never thought that it was to be like this,” he thought. “It’s
like an earthly paradise. I might have been stewing in London like
Rowton; or being frozen up six months of the year in British Columbia. I
shall be as happy here as the day is long.”

As the _Recalde_ passed the dead-slow limit Hi saw some lighters bearing
down upon her from both sides, urged by the sweeps of such men as he had
never seen nor dreamed of. They were wild-looking men of enormous
stature. All were almost naked; all shone as though the life in them
made them radiant. All were of a rich red-golden colour like new
pennies. Even the smallest of them looked a match for two strong
Europeans. Even the most benign of them looked like the devil he was and
the cannibal he could be. All wore gold, ivory or copper placques,
shaped like new moons, which hung from their noses and covered their
mouths. They looked curiously like the lids of letter-boxes.

“See those fellows, Mr. Ridden?” said the captain on the bridge.
“They’re Pitubas from up-country and they’re cannibals to a man. You’d
better put a coat over those pyjamas of yours, or the sight of you may
be more than they can stand. They like their meat white, and they like
it young.”

Some of the lighters swept alongside and made fast, the winches at once
began at all three hatches; baggage and mails were hove out before the
_Recalde_ reached her moorings. At breakfast the tables were covered
with flowers and fruits, of kinds new to Hi. Clinging to the flowers
were insects, coloured like jewels, shaped like sticks, or leaves or
blades of grass.

“This is your first taste of the new world, Mr. Ridden,” said the
captain, “what d’you think of it?”

“I think it’s amazing, sir,” Hi said.

“Well, it’s all that,” said the captain, “but after a few years of it,
you’ll curse these blue skies and give a year’s pay to be able to see
your breath.”

“I don’t think I shall ever tire of this, sir,” Hi said. “It’s the kind
of place I have dreamed of all my life.”

“Pretty scenery,” the captain said. “But give me Sefton Park.”