Santa Barbara, being the most leeward of the Sugar States, is at the
angle of the Continent, with two coasts, one facing north, the other
east. The city of Santa Barbara is in a bay at the angle where these two
coasts trend from each other.

Those who will look at the map of the State will see that it contains,
in all, ten provinces: three eastern, four central, three western, each
of which must be briefly described. The visitor sees the land as
low-lying coast, growing sugar, with immense ranges of scrub, wild land
and pasture behind the sugar country, then foothills above and behind
the ranges, and behind the foothills, as the southern boundary of the
State, the Sierras of the Three Kings, all forest to the snowline.

The easternmost province of the State is that of Santa Barbara, which
contains the capital city. This, Meruel and Redemption, are the three
eastern provinces.

Meruel, to the south of Santa Barbara, has a more temperate climate than
the western provinces, owing to the cold Southern Drift which follows
the prevalent southerly along the coast. Meruel, the capital of the
province, stands on a rise of iron outcrop which gives the earth a
reddish look. The people of Santa Barbara nicknamed the Meruel land “the
Red Country” and the Meruel people “the Reds.”

Redemption, the coal country, lies to the south and west of Meruel. It
was formerly a small independent Republic. It was seized by Santa
Barbara in 1865, in the war of aggression known as the Redemption War,
when a young man, Lopez Zubiaga, the son of a Meruel landowner, “wedded”
(as they put it) “the Meruel iron to the Redemption coal.”

The four central provinces are Pituba, near the sea, San Jacinto, in the
heart of the State, and the two mountain masses, Gaspar and Melchior.

Pituba, once the home of the warlike Carib race, the Pitubas, is now one
of the richest sugar countries in the world. It stretches along the
northern coast for nearly two hundred miles, no mile of which is without
its plantation, either of sugar or of coffee.

San Jacinto, which lies to the south of Pituba, is the most barren of
the provinces; most of it is of that poor soil known as scrubs or burnt
land: it is mainly thorny waste, with patches of pasture. In spite of
its barrenness, it is most beautiful, because of its expanses. Its chief
town, the Mission city of San Jacinto, stands on a peninsula rock above
the river of San Jacinto, which rises in the Sierras and comes down in
force there, in a raddled and dangerous stream (now controlled so as to
be navigable).

Gaspar and Melchior, to the south of San Jacinto, are vast, wild,
forested mountain masses.

The three western provinces are Baltazar, Encinitas and Matoche.

Baltazar, to the south, is a mountain mass, forested to the snowline: it
is part of the Sierra, like Gaspar and Melchior.

Encinitas, to the north of Baltazar, lies between the San Jacinto River
and the Western Bay. Of all the provinces, Encinitas is the most
delightful to an English mind. It is mainly an expanse of grass,
marvellous to see. It rises from the river into a range of downs or
gentle hills, called the Encarnacion Hills, which are crowned with a
little walled town, called Encinitas, because the Conquistador, who
founded it, came from the village of that name in Spain.

To the north of Encinitas there is a narrow, hilly strip which thrusts
out a snout into the ocean. The strip is the western province of
Matoche: the snout is the northernmost point of the State, Cape
Caliente. The copper found in the hills is smelted and exported at Port
Matoche, on the western coast of the snout, in the deep water at the
mouth of the Western Bay, the State’s western boundary.

The bay is a deep, dangerous expanse dotted with volcanic islets.

At the time of this story, and for many years afterwards, only seven of
the ten provinces ranked as inhabited. The mass of the Sierras, forest
to the snowline, were hardly visited by white men: the three forest
provinces of Gaspar, Melchior and Baltazar had not been explored.
Seasonal rains made the forest unendurable from November until April:
the forest fever, to which the Indians burnt copal in copper bowls, was
fatal to man and beast from April till November.