His caleche jolted him back through Medinas, which was now lit for the
night from its many windows. He saw it as a darting of children and a
slinking of men, amid a noise of babies squalling, men singing and women
screaming. A gas-lamp at a corner of a lane lit the words on a wooden
direction post, To Medinas Close; he could just see a lit space
surrounded by decaying old black houses, seven or nine storeys high. “So
that is where ’Zeke lives,” he thought. “I’ll go to see the old man as I
come back to-morrow.”

There was delay in getting through the gates, in spite of his pleading
that he was English. He delivered his letter to Rosa, learned that there
was to be no answer, and then drove off (his driver in a hurry) to reach
the hotel before eight o’clock. On coming to the gate on his way back,
he had some trouble with the guard. Unfortunately it was not the guard
which had passed him through ten minutes before. The sergeant of this
guard was a mulatto (with an Irish accent), who was very rude and smelt
of aniseed.

“You damned English,” he said. “What’s stopping ye staying in your
homes? I suppose ye’re ate up by your lice, and think ye can scrape them
off on us. Well, get through and be damned to ye and obey the
proclamation another time.”

The hotel people opened their doors grudgingly to him. They gave him a
tasteless supper in the ill-lit, frowsy dining-room, from which all the
life had gone; everybody seemed to have gone to bed. He hurried through
the meal and then went up to his bedroom.

Here, in bed, he went over the events of the day with a great deal of
relish.

“I have had a day,” he thought. “I have never enjoyed a day so much. She
is beautiful, she is marvellous, and to-morrow I shall see her again.
Oh, my God, she is beautiful.”

He kept repeating this as he thought of her image with praise and
blessing: he could not sleep at first because of her. At a little before
midnight some rifles were fired in the streets.

“By George, rifles,” he thought. “I say, this is the heart of life.” The
firing, whatever it was, stopped after a couple of minutes. In the quiet
which followed, perhaps not long after twelve, he fell asleep.