At dinner at the Club that night, Mr. Weycock introduced Hi to Mr. Allan
Winter, who was a grizzled and rugged soul, of long standing as a
sugar-planter.

“I’ll call for you at eight to-morrow,” he said, “and drive you out to
my place, where you will see the sort of place it is.” Seeing that Hi
was perplexed, he added, “But perhaps you’re doing something else
to-morrow.”

“No, thanks, sir,” Hi said, “but I’ve written to a friend to say that I
shall be here all day to-morrow.”

“Oh, have you friends in Santa Barbara?” Mr. Weycock asked.

“I know a girl,” Hi said. “Miss Rosa Piranha, sir. Perhaps if you know
her you can tell me if she’s in town?”

“Oh, you know Miss Piranha, do you?” Mr. Weycock said. “I suppose you
met her in England?”

“Yes, sir.”

A change came on Mr. Weycock’s face, as though the subject were
unpleasant to him. “I have met her,” he said, “but I do not know whether
she’s in town or not. You see, Ridden, my work brings me into touch with
the dynamic party, the Reds, now in power here. I am not well in favour
with people like the Piranhas. You can always call on the Piranhas. I
would go with Winter to-morrow, if I were you.”

“I’d love to,” Hi said, “but I don’t feel quite free.”

“No, I see your point,” Mr. Winter said. “You aren’t quite free. So
don’t decide now. I’ll call at eight to-morrow and you can come if you
can. You may have had an answer by then. Leave it like that.”

Hi asked why so many soldiers were in the city.

“Precaution,” Mr. Weycock said; “the Reds, the present Government, are
being threatened by the Whites. The feeling is running very high.”

“I should think it ought to run high,” Mr. Winter said, “when these
gangs of cannibals are imported to keep order. I never saw such a set of
ruffians in my life. ‘I will not ask what the disease be, the cure being
what it is.’”

“They are surely as civilised,” Mr. Weycock said, “as some of these
Whites, who would burn heretics here to-morrow if they had their will.
Besides, you must know, Winter, that the Pitubas have always been allies
here. They helped the Spaniards in the Conquest.”

“I’ve nothing against that,” Winter said. “But whatever my politics
were, if I were a white citizen here, seeing those yellow cannibals
brought in to keep me in order, would make me want to shoot someone. But
I don’t meddle with politics here and, I hope, never will.”

“I do not meddle in them,” Mr. Weycock said, “but I’m bound to watch
them for the sake of the firm. I only hope that the measures taken will
be sufficient. It would be a disaster to this Republic if Don Lopez were
to be killed now.”

“Killed,” Mr. Winter said, “killed and disaster? Rats.”

“Well, I’m glad you take that cheery view.”

After this, they put away all thought of Red and White, but dined and
were merry. Hi was introduced to several very good fellows; he was
nominated for election at the next ballot and admitted to the Club
privileges pending election. He passed a very pleasant evening. As he
walked back to his hotel, he thought that he had never passed so
wonderful a day.

“And I may spend my life here,” he thought. “It may not have the charm
of engineering; but it must be wonderful to pass one’s days in a place
so beautiful.”

Yet as he walked, he saw three Pituba lancers dragging a white man to a
divisional gaol, which had its entrance on the water-front. The sight
angered him strangely; and again he had the feeling that things were
wrong in the land. “There are strange goings on,” old Rust had said;
“they’re going to eat baked Christians.” He noticed the looks of
citizens who watched the dragging, and the looks of other citizens
watching for looks of disapproval. “I’ll ask Rosa about all this,” he
thought. “There ought to be a letter from her in the morning.”

There was no letter from her in the morning, but Mr. Winter called and
drove him out to his plantation at Quezon.