At about ten o’clock, when most of those in the church had begun to
think that nothing more would happen that night, a strong guard marched
into the little plaza outside the church and halted there. Hi suddenly
saw a great increase in the light outside, for the newcomers had lit
flares there. The doors of the church were opened and a strong squad of
armed guards entered. A prim-lipped man, with the look of a “spoiled
priest,” who seemed to be in charge of the guard, gave orders that the
altar should be brought from a side chapel, and placed as a table near
the door. When the altar had been placed, and its candles lighted, he
seated himself upon a chair there, asked for the register of the
prisoners, and began to read it through. From time to time he looked
into the body of the church, where he could see hardly anything, but a
few white faces, the twinkle of the two candles in the nave and the
glistening of some of the gilding. Hi heard two or three of the
prisoners near him praying beneath their breath with the intensity of
terror. He watched the prim-lipped man just as his rabbit had watched
the snake. The man seemed to be waiting for some one who did not come.
Beyond him, Hi could see the dip at the church steps, a market-flare
burning, and moving shadows. The prim-lipped man marked his register
with a pencil.

“Say, sport,” the American said, stepping up to him, “we ain’t your
nationals. We demand our release or our Consuls.”

All the other English-speaking people there, eight in all, joined in, in
this appeal. The prim-lipped man listened to them all with courtesy,
then he said, in English, with an Irish accent:

“In the very unsettled state of the city, you are safer here than you
could be elsewhere.”

“That may be or may not be, but I guess our countries are pretty well
able to protect us. We are unlawfully detained here. We’ve been here
pretty well all day. We’ve protested, and demanded our Consuls. What are
you going to do about it?”

The prim-lipped man listened again. “You will understand,” he said at
last, “that I am not responsible in any way for anything that may have
happened to you in these disorders, nor for your being here now. I am
sincerely sorry that you should have been inconvenienced. I must ask you
to blame the time, and those guilty for the time, not the Republic. In a
few minutes, the commandant of this ward will be here, when I promise
you that your cases shall be heard. In the meantime, let me see each one
of you, who claim not to be of our nation.”

The eight came forward to the table in a body, and explained in turn who
and what they were. The prim-lipped man accepted each claim. “You will
understand,” he said, “that in these disorders we have to use every care
to protect those domiciled among us. As the disorders are now over, I do
not think that you will be inconvenienced beyond to-day.”

“Will you tell us, sir,” Hi asked, “what exactly has happened here?” The
American’s hand pressed Hi’s arm.

“Happened?” the prim-lipped man said. “Order has been restored, or is
fast being restored. The Republic has been saved.” He looked at the
papers, to see what Hi was charged with, then dismissed the eight to one
side.

“Is this man a White?” Hi wondered. “Are those guards White? They wear
no white upon their uniforms, but neither do they wear any red.
Supposing Don Manuel were suddenly to appear with the commandant: oh,
that would be joy.”

Almost immediately after this a carriage drove to the steps of the
church and halted there. Hi heard the guards called to attention and
ordered to salute. The prim-lipped man turned to them.

“This is the commandant,” he said.

Some footsteps sounded upon the church steps, one of the feet clinked
with spurs. Hi craned forward to see who entered, feeling sure that Don
Manuel would be among the party: something within him told him that he
was there, coming victorious to set his servants free. “Oh, Don Manuel,”
he thought, “if it is only you, I don’t think I’ll care what happens to
me for ever after.”

Three people entered together into the light of the altar candles. The
truth came upon Hi with a stunning of heart and head: these people were
Reds, the Reds had won.

The three who entered were:—a big, flashy, free moving, swaggering type
of cavalryman, wearing a scarlet sash across his uniform: the big negro
with the green feather, whom Hi had seen taking the Piranhas’ horses;
and a woman, who also wore a scarlet sash across her shoulder.

“Gee, kid, there’s the were-wolf,” the American whispered to Hi. “Now
there’ll be blood.”

“Who is she?”

“Anna, the were-wolf: an anti-cleric: been fighting the church all her
life. She’s a Red from Medinas.”

“Then the Reds have won?”

“You bet your sweet life.”

The woman and the soldier seated themselves at the table with the
prim-lipped man; the cavalryman asked some questions, the prim-lipped
man seemed to be explaining about the foreigners. The woman looked
through the registers: Green Feather, with a drawn sword, stood at the
door. As the woman, Anna, sat nearest to Hi, in a good light, he had
occasion to notice her very particularly.

She was perhaps seventy years old. She had a face without any mark
whatsoever of kindness, or mirth, or hope, or charity. Her eyes were
grey, hard and stony: her mouth was a slit, drooped at the ends: her
ears were enormous: her hair, which was of a dirty grey, fell untidily
about her brow; she kept thrusting it back with a fat red hand, the
thick fingers of which were black at the end. She had ploughed and sowed
against her enemies for fifty-three years of hatred: now she had her
hour.

The prim-lipped man rose from his chair and called:

“Will those English and American subjects come forward?” When they had
come forward, he said:

“The commandant of the ward wishes me to say that during these
disturbances, in the state of martial law in which we live, foreigners
not vouched for by the municipalities in which they sojourn are required
to repair on board the ships of the nations to which they belong, or to
such other ships as will receive them. Which of you have carnets signed
by your municipal authorities?”

None had any such papers.

“None?” the prim-lipped man said. “Very well, then, you will repair on
board the ships of your respective nations. A guard will take you from
here to the Mole, where boats are now engaged in taking those qualified
to go. I will give you here this paper to sign, opposite to your names.”

When all had signed their names, the commandant called an officer, to
whom he gave charge to embark the eight at the Mole. The officer called
them out to the plaza below the church steps, where troops were halted.
Some of the soldiers stood in groups of four facing a blank wall where a
flare was burning.

“Firing parties,” someone said. “Some poor devils in the church are for
it.”

Hi, looking back, saw the white columns of the portico, with the
yellowness of candlelight inside the door, and the blackness of Pluma
Verde standing like a death. A squad of troops formed about the eight:
the officer gave the order to march. One of the eight began to hum a
Dead March.

“We are well out of that,” someone said. “They’ll clear most of that
bunch up against the wall.”

“These darned foreigners: why can’t they agree? They’re like a lot of
children.”

“Children? They’re like a lot of savages.”

“Well, we come out at the thin end of the horn, whatever they are. We’ll
not get ashore again till Lord knows.”

“Surely,” Hi said, “they’ll let us go ashore again, when the troubles
are over.”

“When will the troubles be over?”

“I suppose in a week.”

“Not in a year, kid.”

The American had been talking in a low voice to one of the squad of
soldiers: he now spoke to the company.

“See there, now,” he said, jerking his head to the right, as they came
out upon the water-front, “the Whites got into the town here. They got
in at the gate there. The man says that they fit like hell along the
beach, till all the lot of them was killed.”

“All the lot?”

“Yep.”

“And Don Manuel, too?”

“Yep. Not one man left alive.”

“Oh, Lord.”

“There goes some more of ’em, who weren’t in the battle at all.”

Behind them, from the direction of the church which they had left, there
came a sudden volley of three rifles. After a minute there came another
volley, presently a third, then many more.

“These darned Reds,” the American said, “it’s their night to howl. Those
were the poor devils we were with a few minutes since; give them a
prayer, sons.”

They gave them their prayers, as they marched on in the moonlight along
the deserted water-front. All the houses there were dead, with blank
eyes. The rhythm of their steps echoed from the walls, the sea washed on
the shingle beside them. The shootings still went on near that church of
liberty from superstition.

“Blast them,” one of the eight said. “Don’t they pardon anyone?”

“It’s their night to howl,” the American said:

               They’re all the way from Bitter Creek,
               And it’s their night to howl.

“Do you think I could send a message ashore, when we get to the ship?”
Hi asked.

“What for?”

“To ask after friends and to get my things.”

“There’ll be darned few messages passing after this.”

“Well, what are we to do, then?”

“What did the cat do?”

“I don’t know. What did he do?”

“He went back, when he couldn’t stay no longer.”

“The Consuls will help us get our things,” a man said.

“The Consuls, hell,” another answered. “We’ll not see a stick nor stitch
of anything we had. This land is going to have the bust-up that’s been
preparing for years. It will be a year before it’s settled. Perhaps a
year after that we may be allowed in again to settle our businesses.
Thank God, I saw a little of this coming.”

By this time they were at the Mole, where Hi had landed with such hopes
a fortnight before. The water was gleaming over the lower steps. Some
men were standing under the Mole light: some soldiers came to attention
there as the party drew near.

“Halt, there,” a voice called.

They were called one by one under the light, and sorted out to three
boats then lying at the steps, from a French barque, an English ship and
an American schooner.

“Will there be any more to-night?” an English sailor asked. “Shall we
send the boat in again?”

“We do not know.”

“Well, if any more are to come off, dip your light there and I’ll send
the boat in.”

“How?”

“Dip your light. Lower and hoist your light, to let me know you want the
boat.”

“It is good.”

“Is it good?” the sailor muttered, as he shepherded his six down the
steps to the boat. “You’re about as likely to do it as my Uncle Joe is
to have kittens.”

Four ordinary seamen in the boat pulled them clear of the Mole into the
harbour, towards the sailing-ship anchorage. The firing-parties were
still firing in the town. Away beyond the Farola, a house which had been
fired began to burn up brightly. “That’s just about where the Piranhas’
house is,” Hi thought. “They’ve killed the Piranhas, too.”

“What ship are you taking us to?” a man asked.

“_Solita_, Liverpool,” the mate said. “I guess the lid’s off the
_Tenderloin_ to-night?”

“They’re playing hell all over.”

“Give way, sons,” the mate said. “Come, put your weights on.”

They pulled on over the sea in the moonlight towards the grove of masts.
All were silent now, from weariness and bitterness; there was no sound
except the gurgle and wash of the water, the grunt of the oars in the
crutches, and sometimes a church-bell, or a volley of shots from the
city. The mate who was steering began to croon a hymn as he watched the
_Solita’s_ riding-light:

                  Give me that old time religion,
                  Give me that old time religion,
                  Give me that old time religion,
                    It’s good enough for me.

Singing thus at his hymn, which could be made to last for a day in case
of need, he brought his boat to the gangway under the lean iron flank of
the _Solita_. The Captain looked down upon him from the poop rail.

“Is that you, Mister?” he asked.

“Yes, sir: I brought six more.”

“Come on up there, you.”

When the six stood on the deck, the captain spoke to them.

“You are on board a British ship,” he said. “The rules are: no smoking
and no matches between decks. Any of you caught striking a light below
there will sleep on the fo’c’sle head. Write your names here. Anderson,
show them where they belong.”

One of the boat’s crew helped them down a perpendicular iron ladder into
the gloom of a ’tweendecks which smelt of decayed malt. A spare
starboard sidelight cast a green light on one side of this space, so
that Hi could see many bodies lying on sails. On the other side of the
space two planks upon casks made a table on which some food was spread,
in bread-barges.

“You can get your supper if you’d like,” Anderson said, showing the
bread-barges. “Or you can turn in on the sails, if you’d rather rest.
Your lot makes it forty-one that we got. We’ll be able to have some fine
sing-songs. The steward says we shall probably sail within three days
for New York. There’s fresh water in the bucket there and a dipper to
drink by. Any matches you’ve got, you’ve got to give to me.”

When Anderson had gone, Hi drew away from the six to a lonely space on
the sails, where he dragged a hatch cover over himself, so that he might
think alone. He had had his first wrestle with life; he reckoned that he
had been an utter failure. The future was dark enough, but it was
nothing to the darkness of the present.

“I failed,” he thought. “And I’ve probably killed ’Zeke. And ’Zeke has
brought Don Manuel to death; and the Piranhas are probably killed too,
burnt out, anyway. And I’ve probably settled Carlotta’s fate as well.
They are certain to kill her; all by not avoiding politics, as Winter
told me. They might all be alive now, if I’d not stirred.”

The mate, who was walking the deck near the hatch, partly lest the boat
should be needed, but mainly to detect any striking of a match among the
refugees, sat upon the coamings for a minute, humming his tune of the
old-time religion. “Ah, the old-time religion,” Hi thought, with the
tears running down his face. “Nothing but religion’s any help to a man
in my state. Oh, God, I have made a mess of it.”

And Carlotta?

Ah, Carlotta.