“Is anyone coming here this afternoon?” Rosa asked. “No one, so far as I
can tell,” her mother answered. “I am not asking people, because I want
you to see Carlotta while you can. Besides, it is Lent; one should be
quiet in Lent.”

“They are putting placards in the road,” Rosa said. “We could not read
them; but they seemed to be about quiet at Easter.”

“I am glad,” Donna Emilia said. “The last exhibition of disorder
disgraced our country.”

The old butler entered. “Señora,” he said, “Don Inocencio desires to
speak with you, if it be your pleasure.”

“Let him come in,” she answered. “Don Inocencio, Highworth, is one of
the Senators of the White party, to which we belong. He was an old
friend of my husband’s.”

“Shall I not go?” Hi asked.

“No, stay, it’s very good for you,” Rosa said.

Don Inocencio was a little pale man with a habit of inflating his
cheeks; when he did this, he looked more important than at other times.
He held a roll of paper in his left hand; he had very nice manners and
spoke in English on finding Hi there. He was in a state of some
agitation.

“My dear lady,” he said, “I have come all this way, in a great hurry,
because of the importance of the occasion. The man has been permitted
and permitted till he has presumed and presumed; but now he has
outstepped all bounds; he has, if I may say so, without inelegance,
burst, like the frog in the fable.”

“Who has burst without inelegance?” Rosa asked. “Do tell us. Could he do
it again, publicly?”

“He has done it publicly,” Don Inocencio said, “It cannot be done twice
in a civilised country.”

“Who is this?” Donna Emilia asked. “I do not quite understand? Has there
been some accident?”

“I thought that at first,” Don Inocencio answered. “I thought at first,
this is not genuine; this is a ruse or trick, designed by an enemy. It
would be a skilled thrust, though that of a devil, to lead people to
suppose that this came from our enemy. Then I thought, no, this thing is
too mad to be anything but genuine; no counterfeit would be so crazy.”

“But what is it, Don Inocencio?”

“Have you not read the proclamation?”

“A proclamation; which; what proclamation?”

“There is at present only one, which will be historical. This is it,
this scroll. They started to put this upon the walls at the time of the
siesta; it is now everywhere; can it be that you have not seen it?”

“No; no, indeed.”

“Then I am a bringer of news. When I read it, I thought, this, if
genuine, will be a landmark in our story. I must have copies of this; so
must Donna Emilia; therefore I procured copies from the bill-stickers.

“You know that I am a collector of documents, which will go to my
nephew; all things, especially documents, if old enough, have romance;
this will have much more than romance, being the cause, if I am not much
mistaken, of great events in the near future. We live in stirring times,
Miss Rosa. You, Mr. Ridden, will see great events, really great events,
as the Blanco party reasserts its ideals. Wait, now; for this big
document; I will display my wares upon this chair.”

He pulled a chair towards him so that he could spread the paper upon the
back: it was a yellow paper, printed in blunt, black type with a tall
red heading:

                   “PROCLAMATION OF THE GOVERNMENT.”

He glanced at the faces of his audience for some expression, which he
did not find.

“What,” he said, “no comment?”

“None,” Rosa said. “Mother and I cannot read well without our glasses.”

“And I,” Hi said, “cannot read Spanish very fluently yet. In fact, I can
only get as far as ‘Government.’”

“Perhaps, Inocencio,” Donna Emilia said, “you will be so kind as to read
it for us.”

“Certainly,” he said, “I will read it aloud: only I must warn you, that
its contents are not such as are usual, I will not say in a
proclamation, but in print of any kind. To begin with, it is, I must
warn you, from first to last a print of the last blasphemy of madness.”

The listeners did not answer this, but looked and felt uncomfortable.

“Will you not read, then?” Donna Emilia said at last. Don Inocencio
began to read aloud. He bent a little over the paper, so that he might
read; he beat time with his left hand, in a pumping stroke, to mark his
cadence. He began as follows:—

“This,” he said, “is his preludium or exordium.

    PROCLAMATION OF THE GOVERNMENT.

    Forasmuch as I, Don Lopez de Meruel, King, Emperor and Dictator
    of Santa Barbara, am convinced of my divinity and of my oneness
    with God. Know all men, that henceforth, throughout this my
    heaven of Santa Barbara, I assume the style and name of God,
    with the titles of Thrice Holy, Thrice Blessed, Thrice Glorious.

“What do you make of that?” he said, “for a beginning?”

“The man is mad,” Rosa said.

“It is blasphemy unspeakable,” Donna Emilia said. “I tremble lest fire
descend on us.”

“This is nothing to what follows,” Don Inocencio said. “I will read on.
The rest is incredibly much worse. But the rest, I, for one, rejoice at.
It continues thus:

    I therefore, thy God, decree, that henceforth my mortals worship
    and sacrifice to me in all churches, chapels and places of
    worship whatsoever; that all prayer, praise, worship and
    adoration, with all hymns, psalms and spiritual ejaculations of
    whatever kind, be henceforth addressed to me, whether in public
    or in private, I, thy God Lopez, decree it.

    Likewise thy God decrees (and in reading this, Donna Emilia, I
    ask pardon of my Maker) thy God decrees, that all other Gods,
    saints and suchlike, hitherto worshipped in this my Heaven, such
    as (here he writes in a way that cannot be quoted) shall be cast
    aside, their images defaced, their altars denied and their
    rituals omitted, upon pain of death.

    Furthermore, thy God decrees that my image be placed in all
    churches and in all chapels of churches, wheresoever there be an
    altar; and that instead of the services hitherto used at such
    places, a service to me only shall be used, with the title the
    Red Mass to God Lopez, the Thrice Holy.

    And thy God decrees, that at the mention of thy God, at His
    passing, at His coming, upon His feast days, as at the passing
    of His priests and in the presence of His decrees, all My
    people, without exception, shall cry, Blessed be God Lopez, and
    shall sign the mark of thy God, a circle and a dot, upon breast
    and head.

    Lopez, Thrice Glorious, Thrice Blessed, Thrice Holy.

    All who infringe This My Decree, in Thought or Word or Deed,
    shall suffer Death.

    From My Heaven in Plaza Verde,

                       ⊙   LOPEZ  GOD  LOPEZ.   ⊙

“That,” Don Inocencio said, “is our ruler’s proclamation in this year of
grace. What do you think of it?”

Rosa went to the paper to read some printing at the foot.

“It is genuine,” she said. “It is printed at the palace press.”

“I believe it to be genuine,” Don Inocencio said.

Donna Emilia crossed herself for the third time: she spoke with some
difficulty.

“Did you say, Inocencio, that you rejoice at this proclamation?”

“I do,” he said, “sincerely, Emilia, I do. We have been for far too long
apathetic: now this outrage will rouse us from sleep: it may be our
salvation as a nation. We ourselves are in some measure responsible for
this madness. We have connived at madness in the palace too long: he
takes advantage of our supineness to seize us by the throats. Now there
can be but one answer.”

“Surely,” Donna Emilia said, “a vengeance of Heaven will fall upon a man
like that.”

“Our Caligula will not long survive his decree,” Don Inocencio said.
“Our old days of the Blancos will begin again.”

“What will people do?” Hi asked.

“They will do much,” Don Inocencio said. “For a beginning, the priests
are already leading their young men to tear down these placards. In the
New Town, a priest known to me was gathering the fraternity of his
parish as I passed by on my way here. The week will see Don Lopez out of
his palace.”

“I wonder,” Rosa said.

“Wonder what, dear?” her mother asked.

“Whether this follows on what Chacon told me half an hour ago. The
Hinestrosa creature escaped in some way. The Reds must know by this time
that the Whites are planning something. This is their counter-stroke.”

“Let us at least be thankful that General Chavez must be in the city by
this time.”

“I think he must be,” Don Inocencio said. “Perhaps it is too early for
General Chavez to be here, or indeed to be already on his way, but
preparing to be on his way, that, yes, we might declare with confidence.
Undoubtedly, he is preparing to be on his way, to, how shall we put it?
to draw the sword of outraged religion.”

“Thank God that we may think that,” Donna Emilia said. “We know, that
however indolent Luis may be, he is great enough to overcome his
indolence when his country calls.”

“I don’t think so, mother,” Rosa said. “I don’t think he is. His country
has called ever since the last election. What has he done? He has been
at home distilling liqueurs and trying to grow Pommard grapes.”

“And why not?” Don Inocencio said. “Thus the great Roman patriots were
employed when their country cried to them. They were on their farms,
pruning their vines, or ‘binding faggots,’ as I think Horace puts it,
‘at the bidding of a Sabine grandmother.’ But when their country called,
they arose; exchanging, as someone says, the service of the rustic god,
whose name I forget, for that of Mars. Besides, Luis Chavez is a
soldier. He needs the opportunities of the soldier, attack or defence,
rather than those of the debater and intriguer.”

“I do not think that he is a soldier any more than he is a statesman,”
Rosa said. “He is a self-indulgent, indolent country gentleman, who
loves his garden and his book.”

“I have known Luis Chavez for a great many years, Rosa,” her mother
said. “You are not just to him. He is a good man. If he be not hasty, it
is because he is wise. He weighs situations before he decides. He asks
God’s direction before he acts. I think that we ought all now to pray
that he may be directed to act wisely now.”

“Before we do that, mother,” Rosa said, “we really ought to send into
the town for Carlotta. She has not yet returned. There is a good deal of
noise in the town; listen to that. There may be rioting or shooting.”

“Let me go,” Hi said.

“I thought I heard the horses,” Donna Emilia said.

“There are no horses.”

“There is a noise though,” Hi said. “There is shouting. Someone is
shouting and coming along the road.”

Rosa was sitting beside Hi. She clutched his arm as though she wished to
crush it. He felt her tremble or thrill like a taut guy suddenly
stricken.

“Hi,” she whispered, “is it rioters in the road, mobbing her?”

“No, no,” Hi said, “it sounds like a man crying news.”

“Listen,” Don Inocencio said.

“It is only one voice,” Hi said.

“Yes, it is only one voice.”

“Have you town-criers here?” Hi asked.

“It is a newspaper seller crying some special edition,” Don Inocencio
said. Pablo, the major domo appeared, with maté for Don Inocencio.

“Pablo, is this shouter in the road a newspaper seller?” Donna Emilia
asked.

“Yes, Señora. He announces some murder.”

“Cause Felipe to procure a copy of the paper for me, will you, Pablo?”
Don Inocencio asked.

“I will, Señor.”

When Pablo had gone, Don Inocencio rose, with a look of great
importance.

“It is quite clear to me,” he said. “Judgment has overtaken the
blasphemer already. Some deliverer has stricken Lopez in the moment of
his blasphemy. I knew that our nation did but sleep.”

“I trust that no such thing as that has happened,” Donna Emilia said.
“Of all the terrible things, to be flung suddenly into death is the most
terrible; and for one to die in the very utterance of blasphemy is what
no enemy could wish.”

“One cannot think of him as a blasphemer, mother,” Rosa said, “but as a
poor madman. And if some other poor madman has mak’d him siccar, I don’t
think one should examine the ways of Providence too critically.”

“It would be like the slaying of the Philistine,” Don Inocencio said.
“Another David has arisen.”

“Carlotta has not returned, mother,” Rosa said. “I think Felipe ought to
go to enquire what is happening.”

“May I go?” Hi asked.

“She has Manuel with her,” Donna Emilia said. “It may well be that the
trains are stopped. In these crises they often put embargo on the
trains. Manuel will have taken her to her brother’s at Medinas.”

“Well, won’t you let me go, to make sure for you?” Hi asked.

Pablo entered with the newspaper, which he gave to Don Inocencio. Hi
noticed that Pablo looked much shaken and that he said something in a
very low voice as he gave the paper. Plainly something terrible had
happened. Don Inocencio opened the paper, with a trembling pair of
hands; he looked suddenly deflated. Pablo left the room softly closing
the door. Don Inocencio turned very white, sat down hurriedly and
dropped the paper.

“What is it, Inocencio?” Emilia said.

“Not Carlotta?”

“No, no, no, no,” Inocencio said. “Chavez. General Chavez has been
murdered.”

“My God. Luis? But how?”

“It tells little. ‘We grieve to announce the terrible news, that General
Luis Chavez was assassinated by a ruffian, at the station of Aguas
Dulces, at half-past two this afternoon, while waiting for the train to
Santa Barbara, where he was expected to speak in Congress to-night. The
murderer has been arrested.’”

“My God.”

“And where is Carlotta?” Rosa cried. “She is in the city all this while.
Is she, too, in the hands of the Red murderers?”

“God in Heaven forbid, child.”

“There are her horses,” Hi said. “That is the jingle of their silver;
they are almost at the door.”

“Let us come down, then, to meet her.”

They found her chaise and horses at the door: Carlotta was not there.

“Were you in time for the Meruel train?” Donna Emilia asked the driver.

“Yes, Señora, in good time,” the man said. “Afterwards, the train being
gone, on hearing of rumours, the Señorita drove to Medinas, whence she
sends this letter.”

“Thank you,” Donna Emilia said. “You had better stable your horses,
then.” As the man drove to the stables. Donna Emilia opened the letter,
and dropped the envelope, which Hi picked up (and kept). “She has gone
to Miguel’s,” Donna Emilia said. “Miguel is her brother, Highworth.
Miguel thinks she had better stay there for the present.”

“Wisely decided,” Don Inocencio said. “And I will now take my leave,
since I must go to the Circle, to see Hermengildo before the House
to-night. Let me drive you, Mr. Ridden, since I pass your hotel.”