It may have been the cold working upon a body worn by anxieties and
hardships: it may have been confusion in a brain nine-tenths asleep; or
it may have been another thing. As he slept, Hi became aware that Dudley
Wigmore was in the hut, sitting on a box, waiting for him to wake. He
could see him distinctly; a sad-looking man, of the middle build,
fair-haired, blue-eyed, gentle and thoughtful, yet with a clench of
resolution, in mouth and chin, which made the face memorable.

“I’m an ethnologist,” Wigmore was saying. “You want to escape from here
without fail. This is Murder Poblacion.”

“Is it?” Hi answered. “By George, did that tick murder you? Wait a
minute: I’ll be awake in a minute: then, I’ll ask you something.” He
struggled with his sleep as he spoke, beating aside the quilt. He sat up
to see Wigmore beside him, sad-eyed, resolute, yet in some way remote
from this world. Wigmore was looking at him with a look so sad that he
could hardly bear it; he was plainly there, in a suit of old drill, real
and touchable. Yet in an instant Hi saw the thatch of the hut wall
through the man’s body: the body was and then was not, like mist in a
change of wind: Dudley Wigmore was gone.

“By George,” Hi said. “This is Murder Poblacion. I want to escape from
here. That was pretty real. By George, if that wasn’t a dream, I’ve seen
a ghost. I believe that that was Wigmore’s ghost.”

He was not scared by the ghost, if it were a ghost; it had come with too
serious a warning for that. He was thrilled through with excitement; he
was pitted against a murderer in a place twenty miles from friend or
weapon.

“Golly,” he said. “That proves it to my mind. I’ve no further doubt that
that man murdered Wigmore: he did.”

As he turned out of his hammock, he saw that it was almost dawn: the
young men were mustering to a hunt. One of them began to make a
melancholy noise upon a flute, to which the others answered by tapping
upon their blow-pipes. Women were already at work at the cassava presses
or at splitting away the twigs from the branches brought for firing. The
young men moved off into the forest: the young women in a group moved
off to bathe: the babies, dogs, pigeons and parrots came all to life at
once: none but the grown men remained in their hammocks, even they were
smoking.

“I’ll go through that pocket-book by daylight,” Hi said. “Perhaps I
shall be able to make out rather more of it, when I have the light.” He
put his hand to the shelf for the book, and found it gone: it had not
fallen to the floor nor into his hammock: it was gone.

“I say,” Hi thought. “That fellow must have been watching me last night,
to some purpose. That was why he crept to the door, that first time.
When I was asleep, he must have crept in again and bagged it from where
I put it. All right. It’s just as well to know that he is roused. I am
roused, too. But, by Jove, he’ll never let me get to Anselmo, now that
it has come to this.”

He was standing, thinking these thoughts, with a daunted heart, near the
door of his hut, when a sentence floated into his mind as clearly as
though a voice had spoken in his ear. “He will never let you get to
Anselmo,” the sentence came. “Look out for him.”

It came with the distinctness of personality from the depths of his
being to voice the thought matured there. “It is true,” he repeated, “he
will never let me go. I must look out for him. But what am I to do?”

He had no time to think of what he was to do, because at that moment
Letcombe-Bassett appeared: he seemed to be in a much better temper than
hitherto.

“So you’re up,” he said. “Good. There’s nothing like the bally dawn in
these bally tropics: one soon gets into forest habits here: they are the
only ways that keep one alive here. As soon as Chug-chug brings our
chow, we’ll pasea.”

“It’s jolly good of you,” Hi said, “to see me off upon my road.”

“Not a bit,” the man answered. “Out here, an Englishman with another
Englishman, that is the least one could do.”

Hi thought that to see a man off the premises is perhaps the least that
one can do: he also thought that the man’s mood had strangely changed
for the better since the night before. Then he had been savage at the
thought of showing the way: now he was eager to show it. It occurred to
him that there might be a reason for this change, and that this reason,
coming from an unpleasant nature, might be an unpleasant one.

“I suppose I might reach the road before to-night?” Hi said.

“Reach what road?”

“The road to Santa Barbara?”

“Oh, that road,” the man said. “I’m not so sure.”

“But you said it was only twenty miles.”

“Did I? Hell. Well, it’s more than that. But I suppose you might reach
it. Yes, if you’re not lamed or crocked or ill you ought to reach it.”

“And can you let me take some food and water?”

“You’d better not take those here: you’ll only have to lug them along.
No. We’ll stop at another settlement, some miles from here, and get a
swag and a gooby for you there. Then you won’t have so much to carry.
But here is Chug-chug with the chow. I always have chocolate,
Spanish-fashion here, for breakfast. A man has to be pretty hard up to
drink maté in cold blood. I’d as soon drink swipes at a wedding.”

After breakfast, the man suggested that they should start. He had his
sporting rifle under his arm and his bandolier buckled to him. Hi kept
his eyes from resting on the letters D. W. so plainly stamped upon them.
He had taken pains to avoid any reference to D. W. He wondered, as they
set out, whether he would not come to know the contents of that rifle
during the course of the morning. He wondered whether that was why the
man had dissuaded him from taking food and drink. “Naturally, if I’m
going to be shot,” he thought, “he won’t want to waste food and drink as
well as a cartridge. But am I going to be shot? Does he intend to kill
me? How am I to dodge it, if he does? I can’t refuse to go with him.
That would bring things to a crisis at once. I must go with him, and
look alive and trust to my luck. The worse I expect, the better I shall
find.”

The man led the way out of the village, across the river, where the
Indians were bathing, to a narrow path through a cane-brake. The set of
the path was to the south and west, which Hi knew could not be the
course for Santa Barbara.

“This can’t be the way,” Hi said. “Santa Barbara must be north and east
of this.”

“Of course it is,” the man said. “But this is the way. It swings north
after a bit, but anyway you have to go west first of all, to clear the
marshes. All the mountain water which isn’t soaked up by the trees seeps
out at the foothills and makes marsh. You’d better let me lead you.”

“Lead the way, then,” said Hi. “It’s jolly good of you to trouble.” He
thought that at any rate it was jolly good to have the man with the gun
in front of him. The path was a well-trodden, very narrow Indian track,
running irregularly between walls of high growing canes, which glittered
and rattled. They had hard golden shafts from which pale sheaths, like
corn-husks, peeled. High up, seven feet above his head, their shoots
were bluish or seemed bluish from the sky above; while the sky in the
narrow gash above was greenish from their yellowness. The path curved in
and out, exactly as the leader of the tribe had swerved from snag or
snake long years before, when the Indians had first gone that way. It
was impossible to keep direction after the first few minutes. The most
that Hi could say was that he never headed to the east, because he never
had the sun in his eyes.

“We’ll keep forest habits, going,” the man said. “We’ll not speak on the
trail.”

Hi was much relieved at not having to talk. He watched the man’s back in
front of him, going on and on with the head down. “What is the brute
thinking?” Hi wondered. “How soon he shall turn round and bowl me over?
Or what a neat job he made of Wigmore and how it can be bettered? Or is
he debating whether I’m too much of a kid to bother about? As to that, I
wouldn’t mind betting that he’s made up his mind to do for me. The
question is, when?”

That was the main question; but the other questions were not answered,
they recurred continually, the question, “Will he?” and the other
question, “What can I do to stop him?”

There seemed to be no likely way of stopping him. Hi’s mind was working
very clearly and weighing all likely chances. The man was armed; he was
carrying his rifle at the ready. He was a quick man, probably trained by
years in the forest to wheel and make snapshots suddenly. He was a
strong man, much stronger certainly than Hi. If Hi were to dart in upon
him, to seize the gun, he would certainly settle Hi without trouble;
being stronger, quite as active, much more dangerous, and in better
condition. If Hi were to lag behind a little and then turn and run back,
he would only run to this man’s village, where no one could direct him
to safety, and all would tell which way he had taken. If he were to leap
to the side into the cane-brake, he might be lucky; he might by some
miracle leap into cover which would hide him: far more probably he would
at the first spring land in some thicket which would hold him, like
another Absalom, till his enemy could deal with him. Even if he were not
shot in the first minutes he would still be alone in the bush, lost, not
knowing his whereabouts nor his course. He might wander for days there
without finding a way out.

“What I must do,” he thought, “is to wait, if he’ll let me, till I can
see some real chance of escaping, and then take my chance: the first
that comes: any way of getting away: there’s none at present.

“But why does he lead me all this way? We must be three miles from the
village. If he had only wanted to get rid of me, he could have potted me
long ago and put me on an ant’s nest. Perhaps, after all, he is setting
me on my way to Anselmo or to the road. By Jove, if he is running
straight, I’ll apologise to him. But I’ll bet he isn’t. He’s got
something in his mind and the time for our settlement hasn’t come yet.”

They went on in Indian file through the cane-brake, neither speaking,
with strange thoughts and threats passing from one to the other, till
the cane-brake gave way to a jungle, which arched over the path,
shutting out the sky. They walked in a tunnel of greenness, pierced with
slats of glare, down which flakes of living glitter and colour floated
and soared, or sometimes paused as butterflies. Hi looked for some place
to his right side into which he could dart for safety: no place shewed
there. The man led on without uttering a word.

After half a mile of the tunnel of the jungle, Hi saw in front of him
the glare of a clearing, and at the same moment felt or heard a call
within his mind, to look to his right side. Afterwards he decided that
he heard the call as sound and at the same time felt it within him as
warning. He looked, as the call bade, to his right side, with the sense
that that part of the wood was evil. It looked more than usually black
and joyless, being a thick cover of trees made like stage Druids with
lichens. Yet at the point where he looked there was a space of
mournfulness, in the midst of which, upon a mound from which a foot
protruded, he saw the figure of Dudley Wigmore, as he had appeared at
the hut the night before. The face was sad as it had been the night
before: it had a look of hopeless brooding.

Hi was quite certain that he had seen it: he looked for one second: it
was certainly there: he looked again: it certainly was not there; though
the foot was there, a white man’s foot, in a boot. He looked to his
front instantly, just in time to catch the look of Letcombe-Bassett, who
glanced back at that moment to see what he was looking at.

“We’re nearly there now,” he said.

Hi felt that they were, but answered: “Surely not at the road?”

“No,” the man said, “not at the road, but what we’re coming to.”

“How far have we come?” Hi asked. “Four miles?”

“Call it two and a bit.”

“It seems more, in this forest,” Hi said.

“I’m used to this forest,” the man said. “Do you find it gloomy at all?”

“No,” Hi said. “Not when I can see the sunlight.”

“The last bit is a bit gloomy,” the man said. “It would be a good place
for putting anyone away, if anyone were inclined that way.”

“I suppose it would,” Hi said, becoming very watchful. “I didn’t
consider it in that light. I suppose you always run some risk from
Indians in a forest like this? Or are you too much feared by the
Indians?”

“You never know where you stand with Indians,” the man answered. “But
this is the sort of place they would choose, if they wanted me to pass
over Jordan. And no one would be any the wiser. One would be bones in a
week and green plantation in two: undiscoverable; just like part of the
world.”

He led the way into a space which had been cleared not very long before
by many men working together. Hi knew that Dudley Wigmore had been
murdered by this man at the spot over which they had just passed. That
was Wigmore’s foot sticking from the grave; that was Wigmore’s wraith
dreeing his weird there. How soon was he to be added to Wigmore’s grave
by those hands now playing upon the rifle?

“There now, what do you think of that?” the man asked, nodding ahead.

That was a stone temple carven with gods by some race long since
forgotten. It had been covered by jungle until a few months before: now
by many burnings, hackings and tearings its face had been cleared and
its doorway laid open.

“What do you think of that?” the man repeated.

“I suppose it is one of these Indian temples,” Hi said.

“Yes,” the man said, “one that hasn’t been touched. Do you know anything
about these places?”

“No,” Hi said, “I’m afraid I don’t.”

“What do you think of it?”

“It’s very grand.” Indeed it was very grand, being in two orders of
colossal architecture, carven to the cornice with grotesques of gods. It
seemed to Hi to be five cricket pitches long. It was built with a tough
stone facing over brick. Wherever trees had broken the facing, the brick
core was laid bare: they were small bricks laid in a mortar like melted
flint spread very thin. The bricks were rose-red and seemingly as tough
as stone. All the roof of this temple was covered with trees, shrubs,
plants and flowers, beautiful exceedingly. It occurred to Hi that this
was the sort of place for which Dudley Wigmore may have come
prospecting.

“I’ve had the men at work at this one for some time now,” the man said.
“I’m getting it a bit clear now. Where do you suppose the treasure would
be?”

“I suppose the Spaniards got all the treasure at the conquest.”

“Not from this one: they never came near this one.”

“I’ll bet they did,” Hi said.

“Well, I know they didn’t,” the man said. “This place was lost in the
jungle centuries before the Spaniards came. I can prove it: look here.”

He led Hi to the temple door, in front of which a great heart tree had
once grown. This tree had been sawn through and removed: the near-by
ground was all burnt and scattered with its wreck.

“There’s the proof,” the man said, “that tree was blocking the main door
long before the Spaniards landed. Count the rings in the stump.”

“That’s true,” Hi said, glancing at the countless rings. “But don’t
these tropical trees put on more than one ring in a year?”

“No, they don’t,” the man said. “Whereabouts inside do you suppose the
treasure is?”

“I suppose under the altar, wherever that would be. But the people would
have taken it with them when they went from here.”

“They didn’t go from here.”

Hi waited: he knew that the man wanted his help in some way in this
treasure-hunt. He would not ask any question which might bring in or
suggest Wigmore. He was certain that Wigmore had discovered this place
and had been murdered because of it. Any knowledge which the man had was
Wigmore’s.

“It will be hard work,” Hi said, “to get inside this place.”

“Nothing like the work of getting to it. The roof hasn’t fallen.”

“I’ll be surprised if it hasn’t,” Hi said, “with the weight of the trees
growing on it.”

“The roof can’t fall,” the man said. “These builders couldn’t vault a
roof. That is why this place is so narrow. The roof is of slabs of stone
laid upon balks of stone. It’s as strong as a hill. It is all enormous
walls, with narrow rooms inside them. There’s a certain amount of mess
inside, of course: these tropics sprout like sewage, but it can be
easily cleared: that is, fairly easily.”

“It would be interesting work,” Hi said, “to get inside and see what
it’s like.”

“Interesting? I believe you,” the man said. “This place was built by the
Quetzals, whoever they may have been. They had a picture writing of
sorts and kept a history in it. They’ve got rolls of their history in
Santa Barb’; people have been deciphering it. Nothing much is known of
them yet, for they were gone before the Spaniards came. Now I’ve reason
to believe that this place is the great temple of the Quetzals; the
Temple of the sun, or the Temple of Gold. It was a legend when the
Spaniards came, as I expect you know: they heard of it: they often
looked for it, but they never found it; the forest fever saw to that.
Except by a sort of miracle no one could have found it. The Quetzals
were a great race: you’ll see their cities up in Melchior; but the fever
came in and wiped them out. I believe that this old god-shop is bung
full of gold.”

“What gold?” Hi asked.

“Gold of offerings.”

“That would be exciting.”

“The Sacramento would be a fool to it.”

“Do you know that they offered gold?”

“They offered all the gold they found, so the histories say: thousands
of pounds for hundreds of years: believe some of what you see and a
tenth of what you hear: it is still likely that they brought a lot of
gold here, and here it is still.”

“That will be a find.”

“Well, what do you say to giving me a hand to get it? I’ve cleared this
space by the help of the Indians, but I’m not going to have these
Indians looking for the gold: not likely. That is the white man’s perk:
none of my brown brothers in this for me: no fear: the hunting parties
would go wearing gold till the Barboes learned of it: news soon spreads
in this forest. Then we should have the Government in. As you can see,
it’s more than a one man’s job in there, but I reckon that two could
shift the stuff and find the altar. And we’d need two to get the gold
melted down and into Santa Barb’. They buy it there, pesos for weight,
at the Assay Office. I tell you, the Ballarat field is just footle to
it. This is Tom Tiddler’s ground, that the kids play.”

“It sounds pretty thrilling,” Hi said.

“Thrilling? I guess it is thrilling: p.d. thrilling.”

“I’m awfully keen on getting to Anselmo first,” Hi said.

“I know you are,” the man said, “I know you are. But what is Anselmo
beside what I offer you here? We should shift our traps to here for a
couple of weeks, and after that what would Anselmo be? Why, you would be
able to buy Anselmo: buy it ten times over and all that’s in it: miss
and mister. And I’d be a lord at home and have a bloody deer-park.”

“Yes, I know,” Hi said. “I say, it sounds exciting. But have you any
picks and crow-bars?”

“Yes, in a stone trough there: out of the way of the ants.”

“I suppose we could get done in a couple of weeks?”

“We’ll have to, for the sooner we lift it the better. Not that anyone
will come.”

“You mean that the fever will come down?”

“No, but these Aracuis go talking: and news spreads. Shall we start,
then? What do you say? Off saddle and at it?”

“I’d like to, frightfully,” Hi said.

“Well, here you are then,” the man said. “I’ll give you a third share in
anything we find: very likely a million pounds.”

“I say, that’s generous. But before we start work,” Hi said, “I’d like
frightfully just to walk along the building and look at it, from close
to. I’ve never seen one of these places before.”

“Look your bellyful,” the man said. “I hoped you’d see sense when it
came to the point. I’ll get the picks along.”

The man kept his eyes upon Hi, who took a pace back to consider the
front of the building. He did not see the temple: it was all a blur of
angry gods topped by a foam of flowers and the spears of palms in a
glare of light as red as blood. He knew that the man was watching him:
he knew that the man had killed Wigmore so that he might be alone in
possession. The facts of the murder were all bright in his brain.
Wigmore, the scholar, had found the place and cleared it. Then this man,
the wanderer and waster, had come thither, by some Fate or chance, and
had murdered Wigmore. Now that he himself had come thither, the man
wished him to help in the finding and the raising of the treasure. If he
refused, he would have a bullet in his brain within ten seconds. If he
accepted, he would have a week’s or a fortnight’s toil: then the bullet.
If he tried to escape, what hope had he, save to wander in the fever
forest in the fever season till he died miserably or was lost in the
marsh?

“We’ll start in that door where the tree was,” the man said. “It may not
have been the main entrance, but the stone is all worn away there by
people’s feet: it is a used entrance.”

“All right,” Hi said, with the words sticking in his throat. He did not
know what he was to do; there was nothing that he could do. He felt
suddenly that there was nothing for it but to plunge into the forest,
cost what it might. “I’ll never get out of it,” he thought. “But
anything to get away from this fellow.”

The building faced him, running north and south across the clearing.
They were standing close together nearly opposite the central point.

“Well, have you looked enough?” the man asked. “You’ll have plenty of
chance to look at it in the next ten days or so.”

“I’d like to go along the side of it once,” Hi said. “I’d like to pace
it.”

“Pace away,” the man said. “It’s 120 yards, but you’ll want to know for
yourself, I suppose.”

“Have you measured it, then?”

“Yes.”

“Well, I’d like just to pace it and see it close to.”

He turned south from the man along the line of gods to the end of the
temple, which had not been cleared of creepers; the forest came to it
and cloaked it there. He turned here to look along the line of the
building. What struck him most was its silence, its blood-red colour
where the facings had fallen, and the fact that every inch of it bore
life of some sort. The man was watching him and playing with his rifle;
he was sitting on the stone trough which contained the tools, much as a
cat, having a mouse in a shelterless space, will drop him, withdraw a
few paces, look at the sky and lick her fur. Hi pretended to examine the
carving: he felt that the man must know what was passing in his mind. “I
must start pacing,” he thought.

He lifted his eyes towards the other end of the building. Dudley Wigmore
was standing there, facing him, with his right hand upon the building,
and with his left beckoning to him to come. It was very strange: he was
there and yet he was not there: he certainly saw him: then lost him:
then knew that someone sad was there who wanted him to go there. “Right,
I’ll go,” he thought; so he set out, pacing and counting.

When he came to the central door, abreast of the man, he was hailed.
“You needn’t go any further, chum. The other half is exactly the same,
another sixty yards.”

“I’m going to the end,” Hi said. “I believe your figures are wrong. I
believe you’re four yards out.”

“A pace won’t beat a yard-measure, chum.”

“I’ll talk in a minute,” Hi answered, still counting. “Just a minute, if
you don’t mind: I don’t want to lose count.”

He went on counting mechanically, thinking of a strangely different mark
of a vanished race not far from his home in Berkshire. Someone had told
him long before that that monument was 375 feet long. He counted his
pacing of this temple wondering if it would not prove to be the same,
and if it were the same why it should be. All the time he was terrified,
lest he should be shot in the back: the sweat was dripping from him.
Hope kept surging up in him that he might escape: despair kept urging
him to fling himself at the man’s feet and squeal for mercy. All sorts
of thoughts, of home and Carlotta and the things he wanted to do, seemed
to be protecting him. His life was from second to second; “eighty-one,”
he was alive, “eighty-two,” no bullet, “eighty-three,” not dead yet.
Dudley Wigmore was there: he could see his expression; very sad, yet
hopeful. Dudley Wigmore was not there; the end of the temple was there,
in a great corner-god, helmeted in the snake and eagle, whose mouth
crunched the leg of a man. By this time he was up to the hundred.
Suddenly Dudley Wigmore was there again, showing him the forest beyond
the end of the temple: the ground was sloping down there in a cover of
greyish thorn and greenish scrub, topped by what looked like ilex. He
went on pacing, repeating his count aloud: “a hundred and ten; a hundred
and fifteen.”

“Hey, chum,” the man called. “Hold on a minute. Wait for me a moment.”

Possibly he began to suspect suddenly: at any rate, he snapped-to the
breech of his rifle, rose, and began to walk steadily towards Hi.

“I’m just finishing,” Hi called. “I’m sure it must be more than you make
it. I make it 127 paces.” He turned to see where the man was, measured
his distance as about fifty yards, and then quietly, as though exploring
some ruin at home, turned the corner of the building.

The instant that he was out of sight, he darted across the end of the
temple into cover: he forced his way through the scrub, ducked well down
into it so as to be hidden, and ran downhill as he had never run. He had
gone perhaps seventy yards, head down and arms across eyes against the
thorns, when something hard took him across the leg, just below the
knee, so that he fell headlong violently into a thicket. It was a severe
fall, which knocked all the breath out of him. He came to himself with a
pain in his leg. “I’ve been shot,” he thought, “shot and hit in the
leg.”

Up above him on the plateau of the temple, he heard Letcombe-Bassett
call: “Chum. Heya, chum. Are you there, chum?” He heard him probe at
some of the near-by cover, seemingly with the barrel of his rifle. “I’ve
not been shot,” Hi thought, “I fell over a snag.” He dared not stir a
muscle, he hardly dared to breathe: Letcombe-Bassett seemed so near,
almost looking down upon him.

“Sing out, chum,” Letcombe-Bassett called. “Where have you got to?
Answer.” He listened for an answer, and, having none, muttered a curse.

“You needn’t pretend that you can’t hear me,” he called again. “You’re
within a few yards: so answer: don’t play the giddy goat.”

Hi’s heart was thumping in his throat, yet he smiled at this order, it
was so like the call of a cross seeker, in hide and seek, in the shrubs
at Tencombe, bidding the hiders to call “Cuckoo again.”

“Now cheese it, chum: come off with this kidding: where are you? Cut
this right out.”

There was a pause after this, while Letcombe-Bassett listened, not so
much for an answer, as for some sound, which would show him where Hi
was. Hi kept still as a stone, which was not easy, for he had fallen
into an uneasy posture, in a thicket which was the breeding or roosting
place of minute scarlet midges. These things surveyed him for a few
seconds, then, having decided that he would be good to eat, they settled
upon him. There were perhaps fifty of them, each with the theory that
the nearer the bone the sweeter the meat. Their bite was by far sharper
than the bite of the spotted-winged marsh-midge at home. But far worse
than the bite was the pertinacity with which they thrust down his neck,
into his ears, up his nostrils, or down to the roots of his hair, before
they bit. Hi longed to beat them from him and scratch as he had never
scratched. Letcombe-Bassett listened, making no sound.

“Chuck it, chum,” he called at last. “I know you’re there. You won’t kid
this nigger: I’m not that sort. You’d better come out. If I come in to
fetch you, you’ll sing a different song, my lad.”

Seeing that threats had as little effect as persuasion, he tried again,
with an appeal to reason. “Look here, kid,” he said, “I’m only speaking
for your own good. You’ll never find your way out of this. You’ll get
bushed to a dead cert, just as you were before. And if you get bushed in
this part, God help you. There’ll be no kind white man to give you chow;
don’t think it. If a snake doesn’t do you, a tiger will. Or if a woods
Indian finds you, he’ll eat you: to say nothing of the fever. Come on
out of it, like a sensible kid and turn-to at the temple. . . .

“If you think I’m not offering you enough, you’ve only to say the word.
I’ll go you an honest half, share and share alike, in all we find: I
can’t say squarer. I wouldn’t do it for many people; but I like you,
because you’ve got guts, and so I tell you straight.”

“That’s why Doll Tearsheet loved Falstaff,” Hi thought, not stirring.
“An odd taste, but love is blind. What will be his next move?”
Letcombe-Bassett paused to consider and to listen.

“All right, chum,” he called at last. “I’ll remember this. You needn’t
pretend to me that you’ve got clear away. I’m not so easily fooled as
you may think. You’re within earshot and very well within range; kindly
remember that. Are you going to come along and bear a hand?” He waited
for ten seconds for an answer, then said,

“I’ll give you while I count seven: if you don’t come before then, I’ll
come in and fetch you. I know where you are. As a matter of fact I can
see you from here.” This was thrilling hearing, though Hi believed (and
earnestly hoped) that it was not true. The man gave it a few seconds to
work upon his victim’s mind; then he began to count.

“Very well, then: while I count seven. One. Two. Three. Four. Five. Six.
This is your last chance, I warn you straight. Are you coming? Very
well, then. . . . Seven. I think I may promise you that you’ll regret
this, my young friend. You’re within easy shot-gun range, and I’ll walk
you up like I’d walk up partridges. I gave you a square deal, but you
asked for trouble. Don’t blame me, if you get it.”

At that instant, from somewhere in the forest, perhaps thirty yards from
where Hi had entered it, a piece of a dead bough fell to the ground,
with a noise which to Hi was exactly that of one slipping on wet earth
and recovering. To Letcombe-Bassett it gave a much-desired clue.

“Right,” he called. “Thank you for telling me where you are; now we’ll
see. My Indians say you stink. You’ll stink worse before I’ve done with
you, my young whelp.”

At this he burst into cover in the direction of the fallen bough; but as
the jungle happened to be thick there, he gave it up, went back into the
open, cast about for Hi’s marks, and re-entered at the very place where
Hi had entered. When once within the scrub, he seemed to neglect tracks
and again tried to force a passage to where the bough had fallen. He
beat the cover as he went. It was all dry, feathery, fronded cover,
sweetly smelling when crushed, but abounding in scarlet midges. Hi heard
him slap at his cheeks and curse: he himself felt that he was being
eaten alive, yet he could not stir.

“All right,” the man called. “Don’t think I’ve done with you. You’ve not
done me yet. Since I know you’re not over here, I know you must be over
there; and when I get you, you’ll get the kibosh put on all this
poppycock; you wait.”

The man cast back along the fringe of the cover, beating it, as far as
Hi could judge, with care. The wood there was all sage-green sari-sari
plants, easy to thrust through but confusing to see in, as the fern-like
shoots grew thick to the ground. When he had made a cast of about sixty
yards, he turned, to make a cast back, a little further into the wood.
Hi heard him come nearer.

“The brute,” Hi thought, “he knows something about hunting; he’ll cast
to and fro like a shuttle till he lands right on to me. My only chance
will be to trip him and try to bag his gun.”

The man came slowly back, searching: Hi heard him kick at the
undergrowth, shake aside boughs, slap at the midges, and whistle between
his teeth. Sometimes he sang, in a voice no bigger than a hum, the first
line of a song:

          “There were three flies; three merry, merry flies.”

He would stop here, as though he knew no more of the words, hum through
the tune, or whistle it, in a groom’s whistle, between his teeth, and
then sing the refrain: “Whack fol lol tiddly ido.” All the time, he was
drawing nearer, beating the cover; presently he was at the end of his
beat, and turning to beat back a little further into the forest. “I’m
sixty or seventy yards into the forest from the clearing,” Hi reckoned.
“He has gone roughly through half of that. Now he’s getting really near,
and this time he may see me.”

The man seemed to think that he was drawing near to the quarry. “Do you
hear?” he called, “you’re not dealing with anybody; you’re dealing with
me. I don’t give up when I begin a thing: I do it. This cast or the next
you’ll be sorry, my little sucking swine.” He came back, upon his new
line, beating as before, and muttering to himself: “Oh, not in there?
No, but not far off and not much longer. Damn these flies. If I’d a dog
I’d damn soon flush this puppy. Come on out of it, you young swine. My
good golly, I’ll take your pelt off in return for all these midges: so
much I’ll promise you.”

He came slowly along, drawing nearer to Hi. He seemed to take hours over
each few yards of ground. Hi understood now how it comes to pass that
hunted men, with prices on their heads, will sometimes give themselves
up. He had not come to that point yet, but it was no longer out of his
thought. The man came near to Hi, passed him, still muttering, beating
and singing, and so slowly went to the end of his beat.

“Now for it,” Hi thought. With the utmost care he moved his hand, so as
to smear it, for one delicious instant, over his face: it was the only
relief possible: the next instant, he heard the man turn and come
swiftly straight towards him. Could he have heard or seen him moving?

“That’s where you are, is it, my cock,” the man called. “Right you are.”

Hi was tempted to leap and run for it. The words went through him like
shots; but he gripped himself, and said, “No, this man deals in bluff;
he’s bluffing now to make me stir.” He lay still, while the man came
straight towards him. There was no song of the flies now, he was walking
with some fixed intention as though to a mark. He stopped at about nine
yards from where Hi lay. Hi could see both his leggings and boots.

“Now then,” the man said. “Now then, my sucking dove; you’re somewhere
just about here. I know you must be. I’m quite content to stay here all
day, waiting till you squeal. I’ve done as much for a rabbit I’d got no
quarrel against. I’d do more for you, let me tell you. You won’t tire
me, when I’m fixed on a thing. Are you going to surrender and ask my
pardon? Well, if you won’t answer, you’re wise; for you’re going to get
a bullet in your guts before you’re much older: you can save your breath
to squeal with.”

He came two paces nearer through the scrub. Hi could see the fronds of
the talpas moving above him as he forced his way through. Just beyond
the talpas was a space of earth littered with yellow fungus. “When the
beast comes on to that,” Hi thought, “he’ll be bound to see me; he must
see me.”

The man wrestled through the talpas on to the bare space and kicked the
fungus aside. “Yellow stink-horn,” he said. He was within six feet of
Hi; he had only to stoop to see him.

Then at that instant, with a sudden startling leap, somewhere to the
right of the man and behind Hi, something big arose in the cover and ran
for it. The man was prepared for a jump of the sort: he leaped to one
side with a cry: “Ah, there you go. So you think you’ll try that.” Hi
saw him clearly for an instant, standing tense, trying to see the
leaping thing, whatever it was. Then, as he could not see, he leaped
into the covert after it, shouting, “Stop, or I’ll plug you.” Two yards
further on, he may have had a glimpse of a quarry, for he fired, jerked
out the shell, snapped in a second shell and fired again, quicker than
Hi had thought possible. Hi heard him mutter: “Got him. That touched him
where he lived; but I’ve got to get to him, to make sure.”

The man stood for an instant, trying to see. “He’s down,” he muttered.
“Or is he down?” The noise still came to them of something moving:
perhaps after all he hadn’t got him. Hi heard him jerk out the shell and
snap in another. “Well, I’ll soon make sure,” he muttered. “It wasn’t a
bad shot for nine-tenths guess-work, if I did get him. I’d have given
something to have seen him cop the spike. These stinking kids think
themselves someone at school: then they come here as though the earth
belonged to them: they have to learn what they amount to.”

He moved away into the wood. Hi heard him there beating shrubs at about
a hundred yards from him. At that distance he was not likely to hear
small movements in the bush; Hi was able to change his position to a
thicker patch of scrub and to deal with the midges. After an hour of
searching, Letcombe-Bassett became silent. “He’s resting,” Hi thought,
“or waiting for some sign. He thinks that if I’m alive I shall think
that he is gone and get up to go; while, if I am dead, the carrion-birds
or those beastly ‘betes-puants’ will show where I am.”

Letcombe-Bassett was in fact waiting for just those reasons. He had
nothing better to do: he enjoyed snap-shooting and would gladly wait all
day for a shot: he had besides found cause to believe that Hi had not
budged. Presently, he came nearer to Hi and called, “All right, son, my
Indios will be here at twelve with chow. We’ll see how you feel with
some Indio trackers after you.” This was the last threat for the time:
after this he came slowly up the hill, kicking or beating at some
patches, though not searching them as on his way down. He passed within
fifteen yards of Hi, somewhere out of sight in the talpas and sari-sari.
In a few minutes, Hi heard him burst through a patch of crackle into the
clearing.

“He’s going to wait for the Indian trackers,” Hi thought. “Or is that
just a ruse of his? I wonder how long it is to twelve.”