After breakfast, Hi was rowed ashore from the _Recalde_, to begin his
new life. He saw the _Recalde_, which linked him with home (for his
mother had walked her deck and leaned over her rail), now drop away into
the past. In front of him was a new world, to which he had at present
three keys, his friendship with the Piranhas, a letter to Mr. Roger
Weycock of the Sugar Company, and a letter to Mr. Allan Winter, a
sugar-planter (not far from the city) whom Bill had known in the past.
These were his keys, but his father had told him not to trust to them.
“The thing you’ve got to trust to, and the only thing, is just you
yourself. That’s the only key that will open doors to a man, of any kind
worth getting open.”

With some distrust of this key and some anxiety about his boatman’s
fare, he drew near to the landing stairs, where pirates of five colours,
in turbans and kerchiefs of every colour, showed their teeth at him and
offered him all things, from brothels to the new cathedral. As the boat
sidled up to the steps, he heard his name shouted: “Mr. Highworth. Mr.
Ridden. Mr. Highworth.” He caught sight of a little man diving down the
stairs at him and crying, “Dammy, dammy, dammy, I’ll get drunk
to-night.”

“O, Mr. Highworth, Mr. Highworth, Mr. Ridden,” he cried. “Don’t ’ee know
me? I knew you, sir; the minute I seen ’ee.” Here he turned on the other
pirates who were laying hold of Hi’s baggage. “Get out of this,” he
said, in the seaport language made up of the oaths of all civilised
lands. “Get out of this, heekoes de pooters. I take all the Señor’s
gear. Don’t ’ee know me, Mr. Highworth? I know thee, soon’s I seen ’ee.”
He was weeping like a child and sucking his tears into his mouth with
twitches of his face: he had all Hi’s baggage in his hands. “Pay the
boatman, sir,” he said. “One of the big ones and a small one. This sort
is sharks. You’d ought to have took a licensed boat, which would have
been only one peseta.” He led the way up the stairs and shoved through
the crowd on the Mole. “O, dammy, dammy,” he kept saying, “I’ll break
into my burial money, but I’ll get drunk to-night.” He was dressed in an
old pair of English riding breeches, a black velvet coat, much too tight
at the shoulders and elbows, a tall black sombrero, and part of a yellow
serape. Hi didn’t like the look of the man, nor his display of emotion.

“Look at me, Master Highworth,” he said. “Don’t ’ee know me?”

“No, I don’t,” Hi said. “Who are you?”

“Don’t ’ee know ’Zekiel Rust?” the man said. “I did use to beat for
Squire William Ridden, many’s the time, till I had to run for it. I
knowed you and your father and Mr. Rowton and Miss Mary. But you were
young, Mr. Highworth. You might never have heard tell. They may have
kept it from you, the deed of gore I done. I’m not an ordinary man, you
understand. I had to run for it; I’m Rust, the murderer. It was I killed
old Keeper Jackson. I’d a-been hung, if they’d a-took me. Now you
remember me? You remember how I killed Keeper Jackson?”

“Good Lord,” Hi said. “Yes; now I remember. And you have been here ever
since.”

“Dammy, dammy, bless you for remembering,” the man said. “Now, but
Master Highworth, I don’t want to presume; but I’ve been all these
years, seven years now, in this unchristian land, and I never see a word
of anyone come from the old part. Anyhow I’ll see to thy baggage, Master
Ridden. Now you want to go to a good hotel. The Santiago is the one for
you. I’ll see you to there, Master Highworth, and I’ll look after you,
and don’t you turn from me, Master Highworth, for anyone would have
killed Keeper Jackson, the way he spoke.

“I was out on a moony night, and I’ll tell ’ee just where I were. I were
up there by the valley, where the water comes out; and it wasn’t murder
really. I’d gone out with my old pin-fire. It was a lovely moony night,
and I got a hare. Well then, a hare’s a rebel, ain’t he, and game? So I
got a hare and put ’un in my pocket and I was going on away along up,
when I see another hare. He was on a bank just above the road. So ‘I’ll
have ’ee, my master,’ I says, and I up after him and I give him my
pin-fire and he went over the bank, and I went over the bank; and he
wasn’t a hare, not really, he was a fox. I see him when I got up the
bank. And there was Keeper Jackson and he says, ‘I’ve got you, my man,’
he says, ‘you best come quiet.’ And I says, ‘That wasn’t a hare,’ I
says, ‘that was a fox, and a fox is a rebel and he isn’t game.’ And he
says, ‘You come quiet. I’ve had my eye on you a long time,’ he says, and
he lets fly at me with his gun. And one of the pellets went through my
gaiters, and so I give him pin-fire. And when I see I killed him, I go
along up the downs and there I come upon a man driving sheep. I put old
pin-fire in a ditch and cover him over. I goes along with the man
driving the sheep, until we come to Salisbury. But I’ll tell you all
about that. We’ll go along to the Santiago.”

Hi remembered the man very well now as a poacher, who did odd jobs for
Squire Bill in the dog-breaking and ferret business. It was perfectly
true that he had murdered Keeper Jackson and had been searched and
advertised for as a murderer, but had escaped.

Hi had been only ten at the time; but the thing had made a stir in that
quiet place.

By this time Ezekiel had hailed a carriage, partly by signs and partly
by noises, which the signs explained. For a moment he showed Hi plainly
that he meant to run after the carriage until it reached the hotel, but
this Hi would not allow. He made him sit with him inside.

“You’re the first ever I’ve seen from anywhere near those parts, Mr.
Highworth,” Ezekiel said. “You see, after I got to Salisbury, they read
in a paper how the body was found and it was me, so I thought I’d best
not stay there, so I out of the pub, and, as I come out of the pub,
there come up thirteen policemen and they were looking for me. And they
walked straight by me and never took me. So I thought the best thing I
could do is to follow these men now they’ve passed me, so I followed
them along a bit, and then they separated, and I thought, ‘This won’t
do,’ so I went along the road a bit and there was a man driving some
cows, so I said to him, ‘I’m going along the road a bit. Shall I help
thee drive?’ So I drive them along a bit, and he said to me, ‘Where are
you going?’ And I thought, ‘Well, it won’t do to tell anybody where I’m
going,’ so I said, ‘I’ll just turn back and go into the town now.’ And
so I turned back, because I thought, ‘Well, he’ll notice me,’ and he
must have been suspicious or he wouldn’t have asked where I was going
to. And I thought, ‘Now, I’ll diddle him like I diddled the policemen.
I’ll go right across this town and out the other side. No one would
think of looking for me there.’

“Well, I went across and, as I was going across, I passed like an inn
yard, and just at that inn yard door, like a gateway, there was Black
George Rylands that used to drive Mr. Hanshaw. If I’d a-took another
step I’d a-been right into him, and so I thought, ‘Now, Ezekiel Rust,
you’re doomed. They all knows that you’re here. They’re all on the
scent.’ So then I don’t know what to do, and presently I see Black
George turn away into the inn, so then I made one dart.

“So then I got out of Salisbury, and I come up out on a place, like it
was downs, and there were some gipsy fellows there. I’d known some of
them come round with baskets, but they didn’t know me, and I asked them
which way I’d better go to get out of England, and they said they’d set
me on the road, part of the way, and so we set off next day and we come
to a town. I thought I was safe when I was with them, but, coming
through that town, my blood run cold.”

“Why?” said Hi. “Were there more police?”

“No, Mr. Ridden, there was not more police, there was soldiers—soldiers
after me, hundreds of ’em. I come into the town, and there was all they
soldiers in red coats, looking for me. But I got past ’em and I come to
a town, and there was a man wanting another man to help him take charge
of a bull. He was coming out to these parts and there was to have been
another man in charge of the bull, but the other man, if you understand
me, Mr. Ridden, he didn’t want, when the time come, to live up to his
bargain. And I didn’t want to let it be known, not at once, that I was
eager to get out of the country, because that wouldn’t have done. They’d
all have known that I was a murderer, if I let ’em think that. Naturally
that was the first thing they’d have thought. So I pretended first I was
afraid of bulls, and then I said I didn’t like to leave my old mother,
and then I said I didn’t much like these foreign parts by what I’d heard
of them. I let them think the wrong thing, you see, Mr. Highworth. But
in the end I said I’d help take the bull. So then they said they didn’t
want to run any risks, and said, ‘You’d better come on board
straightaway.’ So they took me along and we passed through a gate where
there was a lot of notices and there I read what made my blood run cold.
Now I had always been against they photographs. Often people said to me,
‘Now you stand there and let me take your picture.’ But I knew better.
‘No,’ I always used to say. My golly, Mr. Highworth, I tell ’ee, there
they’d got me all described and wrote out. ‘Wanted, for murder,
suffering from a crushed left thumbnail,’ it said. It must have been
Mrs. Thompson told them that.

“You may talk what you like, Mr. Ridden, about there not being a God,
but there is a God. And how do I know that there is a God? Because, when
I read that, there was a policeman there and I got my left thumb in my
pocket at the moment, and, if I’d not had my left thumb in my pocket at
that moment, why, he’d have seen it, wouldn’t he?

“There, that shows you whether there’s a God or not. So the other
fellows that wanted me to take the bull, they didn’t want me to be
reading there; they wanted me to come along. But it wouldn’t have done
to come along, not with that policeman there. No, because he’d have
thought at once, ‘There’s something funny,’ if I’d have gone along.
There was fifty pounds reward, too, for me.

“And the policeman says to one of the chaps that was with me, ‘Seen
anything of this chap?’ he says.

“‘No,’ they says, ‘worse luck, because we could do with fifty pounds.’

“‘Well,’ he says, ‘he’s pretty sure to be coming around here. Who’s this
you’ve got?’

“‘Why,’ they says, ‘he’s a drover coming to look after the old
Astounder, that big bull they’ve got on board.’

“‘Well, I wish him joy of his job, then,’ the policeman said, ‘for a
bull is a fair coughdrop, when he’s seasick.’

“Well then, we got on board the ship. That’ll show you whether there’s a
God or not.

“Well, I hope your troubles were at an end then,” said Hi.

“No, Mr. Highworth, they were not. And why were they not? Why, use is
second nature, as we say. Soon as I got on board that old ship, they
said the captain wanted to see me and so I thought, ‘Well, now they’ve
caught me; now what am I to do?’ Then I thought I’d better go, I might
brazen it out. And I went up to a place all shining, and there was all
the chief detectives of London town come to look for me. And the
captain, he says, ‘Now, my man, what’s your name?’ Now what would you
have answered? Use is second nature, isn’t it? So I plumped out
straightaway ‘Ezekiel Rust,’ I said. Then, directly I said that, I see
what I done. And he said, ‘Well, you put your name on that paper there.’
And then I know what to do. I said, ‘Please, sir, I can’t write.’ And so
he says, ‘Well, you must put your mark.’ And there was a man writing on
a paper and he wrote my name, only he hadn’t wrote it right. He wrote it
wrong, because he hadn’t followed what I said. He put ‘Jack Crust.’ And
so I put my mark and the detectives they looked at me and they didn’t
recognise me and I thought, ‘My boys, there’s the worth of fifty pounds
in me and I never been worth more than eleven and a penny at one time
before, and that they cheated me of, coming back from the races.’ And so
he said, ‘Now, my man, go down to that bull and mind he don’t toss you.
They call him the Wrekin’s Astounder,’ he said, ‘and he’ll astound you,
if you don’t be careful.’

“And I went down and had a look at the bull and I thought ‘This ’ere
creature will be a friend to me. They won’t come looking for me, not
down with this old Astounder.’ But they did come looking for me, and a
policeman come and they come with the captain and he says, ‘Who’ve we
got here,’ he says.

“‘Oh, that’s the prize bull and his keeper,’ they says, ‘what you read
about in the papers.’

“‘Well,’ I thought, ‘now I’m safe. There won’t be any more policemen
come along for me.’ Then the steward come down. He calls me, ‘Crust,
Crust. Where’s this man, Crust?’ he says. It make my blood run cold to
hear my name called like that. So he says, ‘Come along and get your tea,
man. Get your tea while you can eat it. We shall be gone in another hour
and you’d best have something to be sick on, if you’re going to be
sick.’

“Well, I sat down to supper with a lot of others, and be darned if one
of them didn’t say, ‘Your name Crust? You any relation of the murderer?’

“‘No,’ I said, ‘thank God.’

“And another said, ‘What murderer’s that, Bert?’

“‘Why,’ he says, ‘a man called Crust shot a gamekeeper and there’s fifty
pounds reward for him.’

“So then I saw that they suspected me and I said, ‘There’s only one way
to deal with murderers and it’s what they call the old way. They used to
get a great big tin of paraffin and they put the murderer into that and
then they boil him. Wherever that’s been tried,’ I said, ‘people know
enough not to do any more, because they know what they’ll get.’

“And then one of them said, ‘Yes, but they’re not always caught. They
know that.’

“And I said, ‘No, they’re not always caught at once, but in the end
they’re always caught.’

“Now you’d think that I’d run dare-devil escapes enough by that time.
That very evening the ship began to go and I thought, ‘Now I’m free.’
And then I wake up in the night and the ship were groaning awful. She
gave great creaking groans like right down and I thought, ‘I know how
it’s going to be. There’s going to be a storm, because it knows that I’m
on board and there’ll be a storm until they find out who it is.’ And
then some men came by with a lantern and I was in the stall, if you
understand me, next to my bull, and I lay down in the straw and they
went past. They didn’t see me. And the next morning, when I got up, I
thought, ‘I’ll see whether we’re away from England or not.’ So I went
up, and the first thing I see you could have knocked me down. There was
a lot of men-of-war’s men. Some of them was here and some of them was
there, if you understand what I mean. They made my blood run cold. ‘I
see what it is,’ I said, ‘They know I’ve come this way, but they don’t
know which I am and so they’re stopping and watching every place. My
only chance is to keep down just by the bull.’ So I went down to him and
he knew I had shot old Jackson, and he rammed at me with his great horns
and I stayed there all day. I stayed down there two weeks. Proper lot of
whiskers I grew while I was down there. At the end of that time the
captain said, ‘I’ve never had a man,’ he said, ‘look after a beast like
you’ve looked after that old bull. Now I’ll give you five pounds,’ he
said, those were his words, ‘I’ll give you five pounds,’ that’ll show
you what he thought of me, ‘if you’ll stay and take the other bulls that
we have, like you took this. He eats out of your hand just like a tame
canary.’

“So I said, ‘No, thank you, sir, I’m sure. I’d like to go with my bull.’

“So you’d think my troubles were at an end then. We come to the foreign
place where the bull was to go ashore. It wasn’t here, it was somewhere
further down from here. I heard one of the men say, ‘The police-boat’s
come alongside,’ and then my blood run cold. I thought, ‘They know that
I’m on board here, because why, they’ll have sent the description and
that. It would have gone quicker by post than we could have come.’ So I
stayed down by my bull and presently, when we got the bull ashore, there
was a policeman, at least he didn’t look like what we should call a
policeman. He stopped me, but luckily for me there was the captain there
and he knew me and he said, ‘He’s come with the bull.’ And so I went
with that bull; oh, a matter of five hundred miles, I should think. I
don’t know where we didn’t get to. I come to a very nice place. I never
see more rabbits than were in that place, though they weren’t rabbits
neither, come to think of it: I thought, ‘If I had got old pin-fire and
my two ferrets, I’d have some of you fine chaps.’

“Well, that’s seven years ago, and I’ve been up and down since, and I’m
married to one of these foreigners now. Isabella her name is. I don’t
understand what she says half the time, because she don’t talk any
Christian language. And we live in Medinas Close, Cercado as they call
it, but it means close, three floors up, number 41; where we’ve got a
room, and, if ever you want me, Mr. Highworth, it’s the middle room of
three, and there’s no job I can’t turn my hand to; or if you want an
English body-servant, it wouldn’t matter my having a wife, because I
knowed your father, Mr. Highworth, Squire William, and I know all about
this land, in case you wish to know. There’s goings on and there’s
goings on, but what I once say a white man is a white man, isn’t he? You
can’t get away from that. Isn’t he a white man? And why did the Lord
make him a white man, do you suppose? Why, so that he shouldn’t be a
black man, I suppose. Very well then, there’s fine goings on. I don’t
say a word against black men. There’s very good ones here, very cheerful
sort of people, the black men here. Only their feet—they don’t have
feet like we do. The leg-bone comes down in the middle of the boot, not
at the end, like with us. But, when you get used to that, they’re very
nice, cheerful people; they wouldn’t do you any harm. You trust the
black people and they’ll trust you. No, it’s these yellow fellows, those
are the ones, and there’s queer goings on. Now, look there, look there,
Master Highworth Foliat Ridden, there’s what I don’t like to see, those
yellows.”

At that moment the carriage had to draw to the pavement. There came a
noise of a barbaric music of rattles, drums and gongs, to which cavalry
were marching. A column in twos came slouching by the carriage. They
were led by an almost naked yellow savage who wore scarlet plumes in his
hair. The music followed him, swaying from side to side or giving little
leaps in their seats from the excitement of the rhythm. After the music
came the troop of perhaps fifty savages, carrying red pennoned lances.
They wore nothing which could be called uniform, except the metal moons
over their mouths. Some wore linen coats or drawers, some had ponchos or
serapes. They were smoking, singing and calling out to the passers-by.

“There,” Ezekiel said, “they’re the yellows. Tents of Shem, I call it.
They all got lids to their mouths. Government’s made those yellow
soldiers; and they come in, hundreds of them. Now, Government doesn’t
see them in the way we see them; they don’t live with Government the way
they live with us. But these yellow fellows, they’ve been brought into
this here city, and they don’t look Christians do they, and they aren’t
Christians. And why aren’t they Christians? Because they’re cannibals.
And they’ve been billeted down Medina Close, and what do you think they
say they’ve come here for? They’re going to eat baked Christians, they
say, baked Christians!”

He said all this in a broad English country dialect, mixed up with
scraps of Spanish and emphasised by a lot of signs, which no doubt could
be understood by Isabella. Hi thought that the man was as mad as a
hatter as well as being a murderer.

He did not quite like being with a mad murderer, even though it was
seeing life, but it smote him to the heart to see the poor old fellow
weeping at the sight of him, and swearing to be drunk that night, even
if it took the burial money: his heart warmed to him.

They drove through a square where a squadron of Pituba lancers, newly
arrived in town, were forming a bivouac. These men looked as though they
had been on a foray. Some of them had newly-slaughtered sheep slung
across their horses in front of them, others had big round loaves of
army bread or, in some cases, chickens, on their lance-points. They rode
uncared-for, wiry, evil little horses of a pale sorrel colour. They rode
with a leather thong instead of reins. Most of them had no stirrups, but
knotted leather thongs, hanging from the saddles, which they clutched
between their toes.

“Now, Master Highworth,” ’Zeke said, “I don’t expect anything from you,
neither now nor any time. You’re a great gentleman and you don’t want to
come and speak with a murderer; not that he was a murderer. And why
wasn’t it a murder? Because old Jackson, he was a rebel, and he fired at
me, didn’t he, and he’d got a better gun than me, didn’t he, and he shot
me through the gaiters, didn’t he, and besides it wasn’t a hare I was
after, it was a fox, and he knew that as well as I, and I didn’t know,
not really, when old pin-fire would go and when he wouldn’t, for the
matter of that. But Number 41 Medinas Close, three floors up. Don Crust
they calls me and my wife Señora Crust. Anybody knows me. I could tell
you of queer goings on, very queer; things you’d want to know, so as you
could watch out, Master Ridden. But there’s another thing, Master
Highworth; you wouldn’t want to come to Medinas Close not after dark,
not in your good things. It’s always safer to wear a poncho—because
why? Why then, if they come at you, you’ve got something to stop it
with. It isn’t like these ordinary tight things. You can’t really tell
where a man ends inside a blanket.

“Besides, there’s another thing, Master Highworth, which I wouldn’t tell
to everyone; but old Keeper Jackson’s forgiven me. He didn’t at first,
not he. In the night, he used to come to me, ‘Darn ’ee,’ he said, ‘I’ll
have ’ee yet,’ he said. He used to come all sideways at me with his blue
teeth at first; not quite at first, you understand, Master Highworth;
for he must have been a bit confused at first, from old pin-fire and
being in the moon, but it was when I was with the bull he began to come.
Many a shiny night he come at me. ‘You come back,’ he said, ‘you best
come quiet, or darn ’ee I’ll make ’ee come.’ And he done his best to
make me come; there were temptations come to make me go back, but I saw
through them. But he lost track of me among this new religion. He didn’t
know the lingo or something, or else their tiddlewinks upset him.

“Then one night he come again; be blest if he didn’t come again. But he
didn’t come like he ever come afore. He come in sort of shiny, not what
you would call an angel, Mr. Ridden and sir, but he hadn’t so many teeth
as the other times, if you understand what I mean. ‘Darn ’ee, Rust,’ he
says to me, ‘you’ve given me a bad go in Tencombe graveyard, along of
all them damned and women. But I’m out of sitting there,’ he said, ‘and
I don’t mind about it now, like I did. It’s a darned poor snipe,’ he
said, ‘could sit on a grave seven years and bear malice at the end.
Besides,’ he said, ‘I’m going; they’ve given me a horse, and I’m off in
the morning.’

“He wouldn’t tell me where he was off to. He was always one of they
artful ones. ‘I thought I’d tell ’ee I was going,’ he said, ‘there’s a
whole lot of us got horses.’

“But 41 Medinas Close is where you’ll find me, Master Hi; it isn’t a
nosegay, nor anything to please the eye. It’s back of the cathedral, not
dead back of it, for that’s the Bishop’s, but keep to the right of that,
and then there’s a gate, but you mustn’t take that, for it don’t lead
anywhere, but bear round, and then you’ll come to a place stinks like
chemicals, for it is chemicals; only you don’t go in there, but more
round, if you understand, till you come into Two Brothers Fountain Lane.
Well, it isn’t far from there. Two naked brothers in a fountain; you’d
think they’d a-been ashamed; but these foreigners don’t know the value
of clothes the same way that we do.”

“How did you know me?” Hi asked. “I was only ten or eleven when you saw
me last.”

“Master Highworth, I’ve known all your family since I don’t know when. I
know your blessed great-grandfather, when he wore his pigtail. But use
is second nature, as we say; they all wore pigtails, come to think of
it. Then I know old Mr. William and Master Rowton, not your brother
Master Rowton, but your father’s, the squire’s, older brother that was.
Lord, he was a proper one, Master Rowton. ‘A horse can jump anything,’
he used to say, ‘if you want him to.’ Well, he wouldn’t take warnings;
not once, nor twice, so the third time they bring him home on a door.
That was jumping into that pit at Beggar’s Ash. Old Mr. William didn’t
say much about his son, but he took on about the six-year-old, for he’d
backed him in a race.

“So when I seen ’ee, I said, ‘That’s a Ridden out of the Foliats,’ I
said; ‘don’t tell me, because it can’t be anybody else. And it won’t be
Mr. Chilcote, for Mr. Chilcote keeps his lip cocked up, and besides,
this is too young for Mr. Chilcote. And Mr. Rowton’s got a swelled
mouth, like old Mr. William had the same, almost as though he’d had a
smack on it, so it won’t be him. It’s young Mr. Highworth.”

Hi promised to see him within a few days. He did not like to offer the
old man money, but contrived to make him a present, partly as a wedding
present, partly to celebrate his meeting with a Tencombe man. He found
himself in an upper room of the hotel, looking out on an array of roofs
from which washing was hanging. Somehow, the washing looked more
romantic in that bright light than it had ever looked in England. He was
cheered at being at last an independent man of the world. He had had a
lovely voyage, and at the end of it there had been this welcome, from
one who knew all his people and the land from which he came.

His room had a scarlet carpet and a red plush rocking-chair, which
seemed out of place in that climate, already as hot as an English May.
The walls, which had been white, were marked with dirty fingers.
Somebody, who had occupied the room earlier that morning, had smoked
cigars in it. Bitten ends of cigar were in a flower-pot near the window.
The place seemed frowsy, untidy and feckless. The mosquito-curtains over
his bed were smeared with the bloody corpses of old mosquitoes. All
round the room, wherever the carpet failed to reach the wall, little
pale yellow ants came and went. He sat down upon his bed, feeling
suddenly homesick; then, realising that there were three electric fans
in the room, he set them all going, knelt down and began to unpack. He
had not knelt for thirty seconds when something bit him viciously in the
leg; glancing down, he saw a small black thing flying at great speed
along the floor. He looked at the place bitten, which had swollen and
was itching. He scratched the place and went back to his unpacking, but
was bitten again and then again. This time, having learned to be very
swift, he slew his attacker, who smelt, when dead, worse than he liked.
Feeling indignant at being placed in such a room, he went down to the
hotel bar to see the proprietor.

“Yes, Mr. Ridden,” said the proprietor, “what is it? What can I do for
you?”

“Look here,” Hi said, “you’ve put me in a room all full of bugs and
things.”

“I haven’t got a bug in the house,” the man said. “Them ain’t bugs,
them’s bichos. What you want to take is this bottle here, called
Blenkiron’s Bicho Blaster. No bicho nor skeeto will come where Blenkiron
blasts. Squirt Blaster freely round in floor and bed, the skeetos will
be downed, the bichos dead.”

After unpacking, Hi walked out into the city to see the sights of the
new world all shining in the sun. On the water-front, negroes and Caribs
were loading a lighter with what looked like bunches of rusty wire: they
were nearly naked: they shone and sang. Old negresses in scarlet turbans
kept time for them by clinking bottles together. At the south end, were
the gates of what had been the Viceroy’s garden in the old days. They
stood ajar, yet still bore the device of the horse and globe. In the
garden were flowers, butterflies like flying flowers, and birds like
jewels and flowers. Beyond the flowers was the old white Spanish
fortress, from which floated a blood-red banner, with a golden star for
each province.

“I am glad I’ve come to this place,” Hi thought, “if only I can find
something to do, I shall be as happy as the day is long.”

In his saunterings upon the water-front, he paused to look into the
window of a picture-dealer’s shop, which was decked with three sketches
in oil of scenes in a bull-ring. The picture-dealer, a man with a
strangely broad face, was smoking a cigarette at his door. Hi asked him
if the scenes had been sketched in Santa Barbara. The man replied,
“You’d better inform yourself, sir.” The unusual rudeness of the answer
made Hi wonder if the man were sane: he noted the name over the shop,
and passed on, less happy than before.

Yet in spite of this one man’s rudeness, the morning proved to be a long
adventure of delight.

The narrow, busy, crowded streets, so full of life, colour, strangeness
and beauty, all lit as never in England, excited him. There were fruits
and flowers, and costumes like fruits and flowers, men from the west,
Indians from the plains and from the forest; negroes, Caribs; women in
mantillas, women with roses in their ears; men in serapes, men hung with
silver, like images in chapels; peones in black and silver driving
ox-teams; church processions intoning Latin; all were marvellous. Yet an
impression formed in his mind that all was not well; the Indian lancers
and certain parties of foot soldiers, who looked as though they had been
rolled in brickdust, seemed to be there for no good.

At the cathedral parvise, some workmen were sinking scarlet flag-poles
into sockets in the gutters. Inside the cathedral, men were hanging
scarlet draperies all round the sanctuary; Hi supposed that they were
making ready for the Easter festivals. “They’re beginning early,” he
thought.

Near the cathedral was the green in which the palace stood. “Palacio,” a
guide, explained to him. “This is the palace of President Lopez.” He had
never seen a palace before; he stopped to stare at it. The guards at the
gate wore scarlet serapes; they rode white horses so bitted with heavy
silver that Hi longed to protest. The palace was a big, squat, yellow
building; at one end of it was a glittering pinnacle still surrounded by
scaffolding. “I’ve heard of that,” Hi thought, “that’s his silver
building. I’ll bet it isn’t silver, though; but quicksilver. I suppose
the President is inside there somewhere, because the flag is flying.”

It was now drawing towards noon. Men in evening dress, wearing scarlet
rosettes or sashes, were driving to the gates, dismounting from their
carriages, and entering the palace precincts, either for a cabinet
meeting or for lunch. Some of these people were cheered by the
onlookers, especially one man, who had the look of a “spoiled priest.”

At noon, some gunners in red fired a noon-gun in front of the palace;
instantly throughout the city there came a change in the noise of the
day as though everyone had ceased suddenly from work and pattered out to
dinner. Hi returned to his hotel, to lunch upon foods which were strange
to him: okra, manati, water-melon and a sangaree of limes.

After lunch, he wrote to his mother and to Señora Piranha, to say that
he had arrived. Having posted these letters, he set out to the offices
of the Sugar Company, to present his letter to Mr. Roger Weycock, who
received him very kindly and asked him to dine that night at the Club.

“Do you know any other Englishman here?” he asked.

“I’ve a letter to Mr. Allan Winter.”

“That’s lucky. He’s in town. He was here a few minutes ago; we’ll get
him to dine with us. Oh, all the English here belong to the Club; we
must see about making you a temporary member. But we’ll go into that
to-night, shall we, at the Club?”