“Well, if they won’t answer, I’ll see if I can go in,” he said. He
lifted the latch by plucking the plaited leather bobbin: the door was
not locked, it opened before him into a long lit corridor or hall where
an English clock was ticking. As he opened the door, the wind blowing in
shook the pictures on the wall: they swayed and clacked for an instant,
then steadied. There were lighted rooms opening from each side of the
corridor, but no sound of any living being.

“Hullo, you inside here,” Hi called. “I am a friend. Is anyone there?
Señor Elena. Señor George, Señor William. Hey, hey, heya. Is anyone here
at all?”

His voice rang along the corridor and died away: no one was there. “Very
well, I’ll go in,” Hi said. He stepped in, and closed the door against
the wind. As he did so a letter and envelope, which had been lying on
the edge of a table near him, fell to the stone flags with a clatter. He
replaced them on the table; then paused to look about him.

He had heard that men of the great ranches lived like princes. The hall
in which he stood was bare, big and white, lit by electric lights. There
were two stiff black chairs, two black pictures of yellow nymphs, a
table heaped with silver horse-trappings, and the English grandfather’s
clock, gravely telling the time. He walked up to the clock and read the
words on the dial:

                            Edward Hendred.
                                  1807
                               Abingdon.

These two little things of old Berkshire met thus in this strange house
so many miles from Thames and Down. “Hendred of Abingdon,” he repeated.
“There may be a Berkshire man here who may know father.” He glanced at
the pictures of the yellow nymphs in their clothes blown out in the
grand manner. “Religious pictures,” he thought and glanced away. The
house was so still that he hardly dared to go further.

“What can have happened?” he asked. “Some fight or some show or what?”

He walked to the nearest door, on his left. The door was ajar, shewing a
lit room: he knocked at the door, had no answer, and therefore looked
in. It was a big, long room, in use as the messroom of the household,
for whom thirty places had been laid on the table. Food in abundance had
been set there for a meal, which had been begun. Baskets of small Meruel
loaves were on a sideboard near the door: he felt these by accident as
he put out his hand: the under loaves were still warm from the oven.
There was warmth in the vast silver cazuela tureen, which stood, more
than half empty at the head of the table. The table was littered with
the mess of the meal: broken loaves, bowls which had been used for
cazuela, halves of oranges, skins of bananas, and the bones of big birds
like turkeys. Yet from the look of the plates Hi felt that the meal had
never been finished: something had interrupted it before they had
reached the coffee and cigarettes. Somebody with some news had come
there soon after they were half way through, then chairs had been thrust
back and food left, half eaten and the eaters and talkers had gone. Why
had they gone, and where? Hi did not like the feeling of this house.

He went again to the hall and cried: “Is there anybody here?” But there
was no answer. “There must be someone somewhere in all this barrack,” he
said. “Surely in the kitchen or outhouses there will be a woman or a
negro or a peon. There must be at least a caretaker or night-watchman.
The kitchens will be along the corridor somewhere at the back.”

He went down the corridor, where he found the kitchen. It was a vast
room, bare, clean, and empty of people. The fire, which had done the
work of cooking, had been allowed to die down; but the castle-kettle,
once full of water for coffee and the washing-up of the dishes, was
still boiling and half full. A black cat with its paw round its face was
curled up asleep on a mat on a chair. “I’m glad that there is something
alive here,” he said.

Doors opened from the kitchen into outhouses, sculleries and larders: Hi
felt a dread of looking into these rooms, but he overcame it: no one was
there.

“Well,” he said, “if there’s no one to ask, I will make a mash for my
poor horse. No one could object to that.”

He took one of the big round-up stew cauldrons which lay against a wall.
In this he made a hot mash of bread for his horse, adding some salt. He
carried it out to the horse, who seemed glad of the warm food for a few
instants; but it was not all that he had hoped; in a few instants his
muzzle dropped from it. “Poor old boy,” Hi said, “I wish I knew what I
could give you, that you would like.”

He lingered by the horse for a few minutes, to pull his ears, and rub
him down. The breeze which had set in struck cold, so Hi moved the horse
to a more sheltered place behind the immense rain vats a few yards from
the tethering posts. He had hoped that somebody would come there while
he was outside with the horse, but there came neither sight nor sound of
anybody.

“I’ll go in to explore,” Hi said. “There must be someone, and if there’s
someone there may be something I can do.”

It was harder to enter the house for this second time than it had been
before. The uncanniness was greater now. The clock still ticked, the
light still burned, the table still stood uncleared. “I don’t want to be
caught bagging things in a strange house,” Hi thought, “but I’m jolly
well going to bag some food and leave some money for it.”

He ate and drank of what was on the table, to the amount (as he judged)
of a peseta, reckoning in the bread for the horse. He left one of his
five pesetas on the table for this. “What am I to do, and where am I to
go?” he wondered. “If I leave this? This may be Anselmo; almost must be:
yet where are all the Elenas gone? Perhaps I’ll find something in the
other rooms.”

There were three more rooms in the corridor of the hall: two on the
opposite side, one on his side, nearer the kitchens. The rooms further
down the corridor had the look of being offices or studies. “I’ll go
into those, first,” he said. “Very likely I’ll come upon somebody dead
in one, or on the old mad doctor who runs this private madhouse.” He
knocked at the door beside him, which was shut: for one instant he was
shocked by thinking that at the sound of his knocking someone within the
room had turned the pages of a book. He opened the door upon a dark
room, into which the breeze blew from an open ventilator high up in the
wall. He saw the light switches and switched the lights fully on. The
room was the estancia office, as he had supposed. There was a safe,
built into the wall. There were two long tables heaped with papers; but
another thing impressed Hi: chairs had been lifted from the floor on to
these tables, so that the floor might be swept. Two brooms had begun to
sweep the floor: there was the tide mark of dust, earth, torn paper,
cigarette ends and cigar butts half way across the room. There were the
two brooms resting against the table, just as the unknown sweepers had
left them when their task had been interrupted by what? On a third table
was a row of flat, square, white china dishes, each containing about a
pint of brown or reddish liquid. Hi judged that the liquid was a
chemical of some sort, perhaps a parasite mixture.

He crossed the corridor to the room opposite. This was plainly a room
for the women. It contained a long settle which faced a row of spinning
wheels. On a table there were heaps of palm-blades partly unravelled
into the white bast from which the Meruel women plaited their hats. At
the further end of the room were two hand-looms on which some weavers
had already woven parts of saints for the back cloth of an altar.
Someone had spilled a little bottle of scent upon the palm-blades. It
was oozing from its cork into a rivulet which had dripped into a pool
upon the floor. “There has been a hurry, even here,” Hi said. “Oh, I
wish to goodness I had come here an hour ago. If only I had not taken
that wrong turn, or slept quite so long, I might have found the people
here: and they are good people, doing good things.”

He went again into the corridor to listen: no one had entered the house.
“There are all the outhouses to search through presently,” he said. “I
must find someone before I can leave here. I’ll try this other room,
opposite the dining-room.”

This proved to be the main living-room of a company of men. One side of
it was slung with Indian hammocks, loosely woven of dyed fibres: the
rest was in the confusion in which undisciplined men will live. It was
littered with clothes, shot-guns, cartridges, belts, knives, books,
papers, watches, money, cigars, broken cigarettes, pipes, spurs, quirts,
matches, plugs of tobacco, photographs of girls, prints of horses,
shoes, laces, straps and twitches. Tobacco had been smoked there not
more than an hour before, but another smell also struck Hi’s nostrils.
It was a familiar smell, yet for an instant in that smell of tobacco he
could not say what it was. Then the sight of an empty brass revolver
shell upon the floor reminded him that what he smelt was the smell of
gunpowder. Somebody had burned a cartridge in that room not more than an
hour before: there was the shell of the cartridge.

He picked it up, with the thought that it was the heaviest revolver
cartridge he had ever seen. “Why,” he thought, “a thing like this would
stop a bison. This is a Jack the Giant Killer. Whoever has fired a thing
like this in here?” He put the brass shell to his nose and instantly the
pungent smell brought scenes into his mind of two months before. The
first scene was of the wood on the down above Tencombe, on a sunny
January afternoon, when he had shot a pheasant, and had stood to jerk
out the shell. A red squirrel had appeared on one of the leafless oaks
there: it had run along the branch to jabber at him, to within six feet
of him. This scene floated by into another of the Blowbury Woods at
sunset, when he had waited in the cold for wood-pigeons. The orange sky
to the west had been netted black by the elm twigs, and the woods had
stood still in the cold. He had had a shot at last, but had missed with
both barrels, had jerked out the cartridges, and had smelt just this
smell, from fumes curling up at him out of the breech.

He dropped the shell: it fell with a tinkle and rolled from him. He was
standing, at that moment, some four feet from the door, within the room;
he had not much more than entered to take his survey. Fear, anxiety,
homesickness, and the torment of failing his friends were all preying
upon him. Then he looked up, suddenly, towards one of the windows, where
something made his heart stand still. A man with a white face and
blazing eyes was watching him through the window with a look of rage
which made his blood run cold. The man’s brow was pressed on the pane,
while his right hand reached back for a gun. That man was no dweller in
the house, but a spy and an enemy.

He did not stay for the hand to come round with the gun, but slipped
sideways into the hall, closed the door behind him and drew the bolt
with which each of those doors was fitted. He slipped sideways along the
hall to the front door, which he bolted likewise. Then he stood for a
minute with his heart thumping, listening to hear whether the man were
breaking through the window or coming to the door for him.

After a minute, during which nothing happened, his eye caught the letter
that had been blown to the floor when he entered the house. The letter
was on the table within a few feet of him. “It must have been the last
thing read in this house,” he thought. “What if it were the cause of all
the people leaving here? It may have brought the deciding news, probably
did. At least, it may be addressed to one of the Elenas, or will tell me
if this be Anselmo.”

He looked at the envelope, which was addressed in a bold hand

                                —— J. G.

He had a horror of looking at a private letter, even when made public in
a book or newspaper. “It’s a skunk’s trick,” he said, “but I do want to
know where I am. I’ll apologise if I ever have the chance.” He pulled
the enclosure from the envelope to read it. It proved not to be the
letter (that had gone), but a piece of paper which had been sent with
the letter. The paper was a half-sheet of coarse bluish notepaper on
which the same hand had pencilled the words, “Si, Anselmo.”

“Now what on earth does that mean?” Hi asked himself. “Yes, Anselmo? I
would give something to know what is happening in this place.” All was
silent about him, save for that ticking of the clock.

With a little chirrupping cry, the black cat, which had been sleeping in
the chair in the kitchen, came running along the passage. It was a slim,
small-headed, short-coated cat, not yet of full growth; it rubbed
against Hi’s legs and purred; Hi leaned down to stroke it, but watched
the passage to the kitchen.

“That man has come in by way of the kitchen,” Hi thought. “He has scared
the cat, or let in a draught upon him. I’ll be out of this.”

The office window seemed to be the exit most likely to bring him out
beside his horse: he slipped into the office and closed the door behind
him. Then he listened, with a beating heart, for some swift, stealthy
footstep in the corridor or outside the window. “Perhaps,” he thought,
“I shan’t hear any footsteps, only the brute’s hand on the latch. He’s a
spy and a Red, that devil. Listen.”

In that silence, the beating of the clock clanged like the tolling of a
bell. The cat, left to preen his fur in the hall, padded back towards
the kitchen. Hi was on the point of turning to open the inner shutter of
the window, when a little shrill whirring bell began to scream like an
alarm-clock upon some metal hooks on a stand at the table end. The shock
of the sound made his hair stand stiff upon his head. He saw the
instrument shaking on its hooks with the vehemence of the bell. He had
read and heard of these things, but had never before seen one. It rang
for ten seconds, then paused, then rang for five seconds and paused
again. Then it rang again with determination for half a minute on end,
as though bent on having an answer. Someone was telephoning to that
house of the dead.

His courage came back in a few seconds. Someone was telephoning: why
should he not answer? Possibly an English voice would speak to him or
someone who knew English. Even if there were a Red outside the door, he
owed it to Carlotta to run the risk, if by running it he could learn
where he was and where he should go next. He did not know how to take
the call. He lifted the instrument from its hooks and listened, now at
one end, now at the other, to silence. “The thing is stopped,” he said.
“I don’t know how to work the beastly thing. Yes?” he called. “Yes? Who
is there? What is it?”

No answer come to him, not even the murmur of other voices which
sometimes comes over the telephone. Then suddenly the thought came to
him that perhaps the wire had been cut, or the unseen speaker shot down
somewhere far away. He put down the instrument, moved to the window and
opened the shutter. As he pulled it aside, the bell tinkled a little,
whimpered again, as though about to ring again, and then stopped. “The
wires are cut,” he muttered, “that devil the spy has done it.”

Peering out of the window, he could see nothing but a darkness which
gradually took shapes to itself of trees swaying in the wind, palms
clicking and clacking, and stars which became brighter as he gazed.
“Here goes,” Hi thought, “I cannot see that devil; I’ll risk it.” So he
scrambled out, landed on his feet, and then stood for an instant lest
someone should spring upon him. No one sprang; there was neither sight
nor sound of anyone, only his horse nosing at the earth, and the wind
shuffling and clicking. He unhitched his rein, mounted and cautiously
rode forward.

At the space near the door he halted to listen and to try to see. No one
was there.

“They’ll be where the spy was,” he thought, “crouched out of this cold
wind. I’ll see and make sure.” He edged his horse a little and a little
to the corner of the house, where he held him ready for a dash. Very
cautiously he craned forward along his horse’s neck, till he could see
round the corner. Then he stared with all his might at the space lit by
the windows of the living-room. No horsemen were gathered there out of
the wind, but at the lit window the figure of the spy still stood with
his hand reached back for his gun and his brow pressed upon the pane. He
was staring into the window: Hi could not see his face.

“Golly,” Hi thought, “he’s still there. He’s come here again.” He did
not move a muscle for fully fifteen seconds; the spy did not move. Hi
waited for that right hand to flash up suddenly with the gun, but it did
not come.

Then Hi thought, “But what’s he up to? He saw me in the room five
minutes ago; then probably he went after me in the kitchen. What brings
him here again? What is he staring at there? Can there be another man in
the room? He must know that I cleared out: he saw me do it. Is he
waiting to plug me when I come back, or what?”

He waited for another fifteen seconds, but the man never stirred a
muscle. He stood at the window, pressed to it, intently staring. Hi had
seen cats and foxes waiting intently thus before springing; but the cats
and foxes had at least trembled with the intensity of their control,
this man was motionless.

“But who in the wide earth is he staring at?” Hi asked himself. “There
must be someone in that room whom I never saw, but who was there when I
was there.” Then he thought, “Whatever is in the room, there is
something wrong with that man. He is not quite of this world.”

That was an opinion which the horse seemed to share, and the presence of
it in the horse made Hi’s terror stronger. Yet the intentness of that
watching figure “not quite of this world,” was fascinating. All purpose
will arrest the purposeless, but this deadly purpose was absorbing. It
made Hi forget that looking at a person will draw that person’s eyes
towards the looker. For the moment, he did not care; he longed to see
what the man saw. He stared: his horse also stared.

Suddenly a gust of the wind, now blowing at its height, caught the
window by which Hi had escaped. Hi heard it crash to, with a tinkle of
glass. The draught inside the house flung some door open, and blew ajar
the unhasped casement by which the watcher stood. The result was
something which Hi had not expected. The man slithered sideways,
scraping along the wall, and collapsed, with his head towards Hi, and
his gun arm twisted askew as no living arm could ever twist. The light,
shining now from the unobstructed window pane, showed Hi the bullet-hole
through which the body’s death had come.

The horse had swerved aside when the body fell. The knowledge that the
man was dead, and had been dead from the first, came to Hi in a flash,
at his first movement. The smell of powder in the room suddenly became
significant. “That explains the big revolver shell,” he thought. “Oh,
golly, let’s get out of this.”

The horse was out of sorts, but the cold had touched him up, and
something of his rider’s terror was afflicting him. He swerved away from
the house and galloped ahead across a peach plantation. Hi heard horses
whinny and a man’s voice hailing him from behind him as he entered the
plantation. The dreadful fear that it was the dead man mounted on the
nightmare made him crouch on his horse’s neck and urge him forward. He
heard shouts, calling to him to stop, or so it seemed.

At any other time, he might have stopped; but he could not now, after
the corpse flopping down towards him. In a few moments, he was certain
that men were shouting at him, several men, in earnest, shouting no
Christian tongue. By this time he had crossed the plantation fence at a
place where the bars were down, he was heading across a patch of
savannah towards the forest. He heard horses coming after him. He called
out that he was English and a friend. The man who was nearest to him,
perhaps mistaking this for an insult, fired a shot in the direction of
the voice, but missed. Hi crackled through some hard-leaved scrub into
the darkness of the covert, leaving the direction to the horse. Many
horses crackled into the scrub behind him. He called out again that he
was English and a friend, but his bailers cursed him, called to him to
stop and opened fire at him. As he rode, he heard the piping drone of
birds; then, suddenly, some of the birds spat and hissed close to his
ears, twigs fell from the trees about him; he knew suddenly that the
birds were bullets.

The pursuers, with one exception, soon pulled up, the firing ceased,
only one man still followed, calling to him to stop. Suddenly this one
pursuer pulled up, and Hi at the same instant felt a coldness of fear
all over him. There came a shot and shock, his horse swerved violently,
staggered, recovered, and bolted into the forest. “He hit the horse,” Hi
said, “but not badly, or he wouldn’t go like this.” For the rest of the
ride his task was to keep on.

How long he rode the forest he never knew: the horse went on in his
terror till he could go no more, then he halted, full of the ends of
terror, nervy, starting at a shadow and trembling.

The moon was long since down. Hi could make out that he was in a kind of
pan or crater in the forest, with wavy indistinctness everywhere,
smelling of balm. He dismounted, tried to examine his horse, who would
not let himself be examined, but had certainly been cut on the crupper.
He tried to comfort the poor beast. Coming to a patch of grass near a
brook, he offered him grazing and a drink, both of which he refused.
“Poor old Bingo,” Hi said, “you’re dead beat, you shall rest.”

He tethered, unsaddled and spread his coat upon him. The beast stood
where he was left without attempting to roll; he drooped his head as
though he had come to the end.

“Now I am pretty nearly done,” Hi thought. “I don’t know where I am.
I’ve been gone four days. I’ve killed one horse and cooked a second. Now
I’m lost in the forest again.”

He listened for some noise of men or the creatures of men, but heard
nothing save the noises of the forest. Terrors began to take hold of
him, the dread of such a terror as had come the night before, the terror
of the man at the window. Yet at last sleep took him from the terror of
being awake: he fell into a pit of sleep and slept for hours.

During this, the fourth day of Hi’s journey, young Chacon the notary,
reached Don Manuel with all the terrible news still to be told. By this
time, men and horses had begun to arrive at the rendezvous. Some copies
of the blasphemous proclamation, which had arrived in the west from Port
Matoche, had roused intense feeling throughout the west: men answered
Don Manuel’s call from all over San Jacinto. While Hi was lying down to
sleep, Don Manuel, with an advanced guard of about a hundred men, pushed
eastward from the river to begin his march.