It was about half-past one in the afternoon when the church doors
closed: the sound of the rifle fire continued, in an irregular popping
as though the people some miles away were letting off fire crackers.

“That’s not fighting,” the American said, “that’s still only
skirmishing. These darned people can neither make war nor keep peace.”

The church was of a Renaissance model, with rounded windows high up in
the walls, and a ceiling painted with simpering ladies in clothes like
rolls of blue smoke. All the sacred symbols had been wrenched or cut
away from the decorations. A big coloured print of Don Lopez stood in a
gilt frame over the altar. It represented him in evening dress with a
red sash across his shirt. It had a dreadful likeness to a pig whose
throat had been cut. Under him in gilt letters was the legend:

                       Liberty from Superstition.

There were about a hundred men, women and children of the suspected
imprisoned there: most of them were stunned, some were terrified: one or
two, like the young girl, hysterical. What shocked Hi was the atmosphere
of suspicion: all there were afraid that the next person was a spy. They
looked at each other, but hardly spoke, hardly even whispered. They
watched the shot man die and the fevered man shake, without interest and
without help: I was I, he was he; self was become terribly important,
and sympathy a dangerous thing.

“They’ve been through the mill, these people,” the American said.

“How do you know the Whites will be here this afternoon?” Hi asked him.

“Cut it right out, son,” the American said. “I’ve been through one of
these picnics once before here. This place is plum full of spies. You’d
best not talk.”

“But do you know if the Reds have killed anyone here?”

“Killed? I dunno. I guess they won’t kill till they see which way the
weasel pops. If they whip, they’ll rip around. But you stay quiet.”

The advice was good, for even as they talked a man edged a little nearer
to them, with the look of the eavesdropper. When he found that the two
fell silent, he sidled up to Hi, indicated the portrait over the altar,
and said: “Look at that. I call that a dam’ outrage: don’t you?”
Something in the look of the man reminded Hi of the brothel-touts who
had beset him at the landing stairs before ’Zeke drove them away: it
flashed into his mind that this man might be a spy: so he answered, “No,
I call it ‘Liberty from Superstition.’” The man was puzzled by the
answer, but seemed to consider Hi’s youth, and then moved away.

Soon after this, an armed guard appeared at the door, under an officer,
who explained that the married couples as well as all women and children
there in prison were to be moved “in the interests of morality” to
another church, where they would be alone. As some of them expected to
be murdered outside the doors, this caused a piteous scene, of screaming
and begging for mercy, but by persuasion and force the removal was made.
Among those removed, to Hi’s great relief, was the Englishman with the
Spanish wife, the pride of the Pinamentes, and their three children.

While the doors were open, some sweepers from the barracks brought in a
cask of water and a basket of army bread for the use of the prisoners
for which those with any appetites left were glad and thankful.

The American tried to find out from these sweepers what was happening
outside. They would not answer him except by shaking their heads: when
the guards noticed the questioning they ordered the prisoners not to
speak to the sweepers on pain of being shot. “These Red Runts are plum
scared,” the American said. “They wouldn’t bring us food unless they
were afraid of being whipped. They’re keeping both sides the fence.”

Hi was cheered by this, as by nothing else. After three minutes in the
church, he had felt that he knew and loathed every detail of it. He
tried walking up and down the aisles; but the sense, that he was a
prisoner, took all the interest out of walking. He tried lying down to
sleep, but the sense that he was a prisoner, the knowledge that he had
failed, and the excitement of the coming battle, kept him awake. He
tried to pray that the Whites would rout the Reds; but the excitement
and anxiety were too great, he could not put the prayer into words. Time
seemed to stand still, all reality seemed to have ceased; he lay in a
horrible nothing, anxious unspeakably. Everybody there in the church was
in the same state. When Hi listened, he felt that everybody in the city
was in the same state. One of the strange things of that afternoon was
the silence in the town about them; it seemed like a town of the dead,
save for the pacing of the guards outside the doors, and the occasional
passing of patrols. At about half-past three, the distant firing, which
had hardly varied in volume for two hours, increased and changed.
Plainly some much heavier metal had come into action.

“Two batteries of four guns,” the American said, after listening.
“Number three gun in one of ’em is slow in getting off. They’ve only
four batteries in their whole army: and one of them’s in pawn, for the
Dictator’s new state coach.”

“The firing is nearer than it was,” Hi said.

“There’s more of it,” the American said.

There was more of it for half an hour: then suddenly it increased to a
rolling, rattling racket much nearer at hand. This went on with the
utmost fury for twenty minutes, during which all the windows in Santa
Barbara rattled and trembled. Hi could hear shouting in the noise of the
firing: then the shouting ceased and the firing dwindled away to a
popping till it almost ceased, too. He looked to the American for an
explanation. “That was an attack,” he said. “But I guess they’ve grown
tired of it.”

It seemed as though that were the case, that they were tired of it. The
light began to move from the floor up the wall as the sun went down the
sky. The day of battle and suspense seemed coming to an end. Then
suddenly, within a quarter of a mile of them, seemingly somewhere on the
sea-front of the city, there came a clattering of horse-hoofs and
shouting.

After this, there was silence, while everybody waited in suspense for a
quarter of an hour, when a sudden shattering volley from close at hand
sent the hearts into the throats. Ricochetting bullets struck the
near-by roofs, there were falls of plaster and of tiles and the cries of
women, while the space down by the sea-front began to roar with firing:
hot and hot, so near at hand that presently the stink of the powder
drifted into the church.

The firing went on for nearly an hour, dwindling as the light dwindled,
till by the time the church was dark, save for the moonlight, it ceased
altogether.

“The Whites must have entered the town and won,” Hi said to the
American. “That firing was in the town.”

“It was in the town all right,” the American said.

Hi rose from his seat and began to pace up and down in his excitement.
The thought of Carlotta being set free was more than he could bear. The
guards lit a couple of candles in a side chapel, peered to see who was
walking, and called to Hi to keep still. The town outside was deathly
still for some time after the firing had ceased: then all the streets
began to ring with the trotting of horses, coming into the city from the
direction of the Medinas Gate. They came in at a fast trot on at least
three roads, so that the clatter and clink filled the air.

“Here the conquering heroes come,” the Americans said.

“The Whites?”

“It’s the side that’s won anyway, or they wouldn’t come in in order.”

“All the White army is cavalry.”

“Our darned Consuls might get a wiggle on without slopping over into
speed.”

“I don’t suppose they know we’re here.”

“It’s their job to know we’re not here.”

The cavalry, whoever they were, went to their stations or bivouacs and
ceased to clatter. The town lapsed again into silence. Presently, in the
quiet, within a hundred yards of the church, a sentry challenged
someone, waited for two seconds, and fired. Someone cried out and fell,
while the sentry jerked out the shell, which tinkled on the stones,
reloaded and snapped-to the breech.

“The sentry’s night to howl,” the American said.

Soon after this, when the town was silent save for the pacing of the
feet of sentries here and there, and the occasional slow passing of
horse patrols, some volley-firings, of three or four rifles together,
began in the direction of the cathedral. These volleys were repeated at
short intervals for twenty minutes.

“What is that sort of firing?” Hi asked.

“It can only be executions,” the American said. “They’re shooting
people.”

“Deserters?”

“Yes; or prisoners.”

“Prisoners of war? Surely not?”

“Any gol-darned prisoner’s good enough to shoot in this gol-darned
Republic.”

“Then it means that the Whites have won?”

“Well, it would seem so.”

“I hope to God they have.”

“Well, kid, don’t hope it publicly till you know it’s a fact.”

“Don’t you think that the Whites have won?” Hi asked in a whisper.

“We’ll know soon enough.”