The madness began to show itself in a passion for building big and
costly public works. He rebuilt the cathedral (a Colonial Renaissance
building) on the lines of the temple at Hloatl. He built himself a
palace of glass, having heard, though wrongly, that the Queen of England
lived in one. He then built himself a summerhouse, roofed with silver
plates, and added to it an ivory room inlaid with gold. Being a Red, he
caused all the bread used in his palace to be coloured red. He
frequented shambles in order to see, as he said, “the divine colour.”

He had two favourites. Livio and Zarzas; two negro servants, Green
Feather and the Knife; and one son, the child of his youth, Don José,
born in 1860, a depraved youth of sickly beauty, who headed a clique of
vicious lads at the court.

Late in the year 1886, the Dictator’s madness began to take other forms,
of hatred and suspicion of the Whites, fear of assassination, and the
belief that he was god. All these obsessions were fostered by Mordred
Weycock, who contrived to win, from each of them, advantages for himself
or his firm.

In all his schemes, Mordred was helped by his nephew, Roger Weycock,
twenty-seven years of age, who had been in Santa Barbara since 1883,
after having failed for the Diplomatic Service. Roger was a tall,
polite, brown-haired, fair-bearded man, with a pleasant manner and a
pale, inscrutable face. He was the channel through which Englishmen knew
Santa Barbara. It was through his able weekly letters to the English
press that English opinion was in favour of Lopez for so long. He knew
Lopez to be mad; but the Red party favoured his firm and he had no pity
for the Whites: old Miguel de Leyva had once kept him waiting in the
hall, and had then brushed by to lunch.

Miguel de Leyva was now dead, leaving many children, including his
youngest, the girl Carlotta, born in 1868, who even in infancy impressed
people as a creature from another world. She comes into this story (as
into many others) as a rare thing, whose passing made all things not
quite the same. She was of a delicate, exquisite, unearthly charm, which
swayed men, women and children: the Indians of San Jacinto used to kneel
as she passed: some have said that animals and birds would come to her:
at the least she had a beauty and grace not usual.