As Don Manuel made his farewells, he took Hi’s hand in both his own
hands. “My greetings to your father,” he said. “Tell him I remember the
saddles. I shall expect you presently at my home.”

“You will stay with us, will you not?” Carlotta said.

“I would love to,” Hi said. “I would love it more than anything.”

They all went out of doors to see them start. Carlotta was driving two
marvellous little horses, full of fire. Hi looking at her as she sat
watching her horses, felt that the only possible happiness on earth
would be to live and die for her; since everything about her was
beautiful and came not from this world. He saw that all there thought as
he thought and felt as he felt about her. “You beautiful and gracious
and glorious thing,” he thought. “I wish I could die for you.”

The peones stepped from the horses’ heads, the gates opened, the horses
strained to the collars and the marvellous girl was gone. Often,
afterwards, he thought of that scene.

“I trust that he may find his mother alive,” Donna Emilia said.

“I must be going, too,” Hi said.

“Going! nonsense,” Rosa said. “You’ve come for the day. You’ve had
neither tennis nor a swim. Come in.”

When he had come in, Rosa looked at him with malice.

“Isn’t he handsome, Hi?” she asked.

“Handsome? I should think he is,” Hi said. “He is everything and has
everything.”

“No; he hasn’t everything,” Rosa said. “I know several things that he
has not. But even if he had everything, he wouldn’t be good enough for
her.”

Hi did not answer, for the thought of Manuel having the beautiful
Carlotta went through him with a pang.

“He wouldn’t be good enough for her; would he?” Rosa repeated.

“I hope so.”

“No, you don’t,” Rosa said. “You know that he wouldn’t. Confess, Hi, he
wouldn’t.”

Hi looked at her with a look of pain.

“Isn’t she wonderful?” she said.

“I understand your being fond of her.”

“Fond of her? People aren’t fond of her. They worship her and would die
for her. Wouldn’t you?”

“Yes, I would,” he said, after a pause. “You know I would. And you
would, too.”

“I told you not to,” Rosa said. “I gave you fair warning. You’d better
put her out of your mind. Besides,” she added with malice, “he’s
frightfully jealous.”

“He’ll have some cause, I should say.”

“Well, come on into the garden. I’ll play you tennis.”

“No, be square, Rosa. You don’t really want me. I must clear out.”

“I’ll tell you when to clear out,” she said. “But stay a little.
Carlotta will be back in half an hour. Stay to see her. It will be the
last time you’ll see her before she marries.”

“I thought you said that they wouldn’t be married till Easter.”

“Not now,” she said. “She’ll go to him by the noon train to-morrow; you
will see. I shall have to go with her. She’ll be married by the Bishop
to-morrow midnight, so that the mother may see the son married. Then
she’ll be with that man all her life.”

“She chose him, out of all the men in the world,” he said. “And I don’t
wonder; he’s a fine fellow.”

“A fine fellow? Only a few years ago he was the friend of this Don José
of the Murder Gang.”

“I don’t know about that,” Hi said. “He’s a fine fellow now; and she
thinks so.”

“She thinks so now, but in a week, in a month . . . with that man all
the time.”

“Here’s Pablo, with a message for you,” Hi said.

“There is someone to see you, Señorita,” Pablo said, “Tomás Chacon, the
notary from Santa Barbara.”

“Strange,” Rosa said to Hi. “This is the notary whom Manuel left in
charge of the murderer. If you will stay by these roses, to watch the
humming birds for a moment, I will speak to him.”