Towards three in the morning Hi fell into a deeper sleep, from which he
was roused by the cold: his fire was out and his quilt had slipped from
him. In groping for it, he found that his head had so swollen that he
could hardly see. The pain was gone, but he was puffed like a prize pig.

“O Lord,” he moaned, “I shan’t be able to see. I can’t see across this
hut. I shan’t be able to reach Anselmo even to-day. Now I am bound to be
too late, and Carlotta may be killed because of me.” He turned out of
his hammock to prove himself: it was only too true, he was nearly blind:
he could not hope to go on without a guide. “Horses,” he thought. “These
people have no horses. My only hope is a river. I may be near some
tributary of the San Jacinto. If I could take a canoe down that, or if
some Indian would take me, I might even find Don Manuel during to-day.
There must be rivers which run into the San Jacinto. If that fellow told
the truth, if this is the Melchior forest, I must be near the San
Jacinto, or its eastern tributaries. I must speak to that fellow and beg
him to help me. After all, he is an Englishman, though he is as ross as
a mule.”

As it was dark and cold, he turned back to his hammock to try for warmth
and sleep. He slept a little, by starts, always broken by nightmares.
The cold struck him from underneath: it got into all his bones. “Aha,
you English boy,” voices said to him in his dreams. “Now you’ve come
into our power you shall be searched. You’ve got the cramps, you’ve got
the aches, you’ve got the forest fever, you are going to go blind;
you’ve got the poison in your entrails and we’re going to wring you with
it.”

When he next awoke it was daylight, though still early. The village had
come again to the life it had hardly laid down during the darkness. The
thudding noise, of wet linen being banged on stones with a mallet, had
begun again: women were singing and little brown children were playing
in the _patio_. The sharp-eared dogs had tucked their noses into their
flanks for sleep in sunny places. The tiny devils were sidling about,
mocking at people. He recognised them now as dove-grey parrots with rosy
breasts. Their bright eyes and compact bent beaks gave them the knowing
look of men about town: they looked like devilled-bone-and-biscuit men.
They looked at him, with their heads cocked aside, considering his
offers of friendship, and then sheered off from him as something not to
be trusted.

He turned out of his hammock to peer from his puffy eyes at the new
world about him. His body felt as though it did not belong to him: pains
and aches had taken it over. His face and hands felt dead: his mouth was
full of fur. He wandered out into the morning.

He could see well enough to take a track which led past the side of his
hut to a river some twenty feet broad where naked men and women were
sitting in the water immersed to their chins. Some women were pounding
bunches of wet cotton on the stones near the river; their tiny children,
tying minute fragments of stone to strips of bast, were making bolases
with which they entangled the dragon-flies.

After washing in the river, and bathing his puffy eyes, Hi returned to
the huts, hoping to see the white man, who was not in his hut. Early as
it was, most of the men of the community had gone to whatever work they
had to do. Women were pounding and straining cassava, or baking it into
loaves. They laughed at Hi in a friendly way: one of them gave him bread
and a gourd full of broth. While he ate this, sitting in a hammock, an
Indian, dressed in three tobacco-tin lids, took station before him,
grinned, pointed to his chest and said: “Me Johnny God-dam.”
Unfortunately, this was all the English known to him. Hi tried by signs
to find out where the white man was, where one would come out if one
were to follow the river, and where the white settlements were. His
performance roused great interest, but nobody understood it: he had the
general impression that they thought that he was praying for dry
weather.

He went back to the hut where he had passed the night; he was full of
anxiety and helplessness. Chug-chug, if that were his name, appeared
with some aromatic leaves, which he rubbed gently on Hi’s blistered
skin, with a soothing effect. He was a cheerful man, who talked all the
time. Hi questioned him in English and by signs: this increased
Chug-chug’s flow of talk, without bringing any enlightenment.

“Oh, I ought to go on,” Hi said. “I ought to go on. Yet what is the
sense of going on, blind as I am, when I don’t know where to make for?
See here, Chug-chug,” he said, with signs to represent the white man,
“when will the Señor, the chief, come back into the camp?” Chug-chug
knew that an important question was asked, but he could not understand
it; he made a speech about the new cassava patch, which Hi could not
understand. Having thus made the honours even he disappeared.

“I’ll wait till mid-day,” Hi thought. “The white man will be back at
mid-day. Father always said that the forest practice is to eat at
mid-day and then take siesta. After siesta, I shall be able to go on.
The man’s a regular rossy tick: yet even a rossy tick will tell a fellow
the way. And the more I think of it, the more sure I am that I shall be
able to reach the San Jacinto River from here. I may even reach Don
Manuel to-night.”

He stood at the hut door for a few minutes gazing at the scene of
primitive life before him. The sun, blazing down into the compound, put
new life into him: he felt both warmed and comforted. He was beginning
to see a little better out of both eyes, and found that he could now
bend his fingers. One of the best of his symptoms was the feeling that
if he were to lie down he would sleep.

He went into the hut, with a sudden curious sensation that somebody had
been in the hut, behind him, until the instant of his turning to come
in. “Strange,” he thought. “It is this puffiness of my eyes. Or I know
what it was, coming into the gloom out of the glare, made me think that
the posts were a man.” He turned back to make sure of this. “I suppose
that that is what it must have been,” he thought. “It did look rather
like a man.”

He sat in his hammock, trying to think how much he was to blame for
going astray. Then his thoughts turned to the Englishman. “What is he
and what is he doing here, and why is he so sour? He must be a
prospector of sorts: he is not an engineer, for he hasn’t any engine. He
won’t be only a hunter or explorer: he’s too much of a swine for that. I
wouldn’t mind betting that he is a gold or mineral prospector, who has
come on a good thing out here and is afraid of some other person cutting
in on him. That is it, I’ll bet any money. That would explain his being
so crusty and giving me so poor a welcome. I wonder what the man is. I
suppose that those are his trunks, over there against the wall.”

The trunks were the usual, small, flat, tin, traveller’s trunks, made
low, so as to fit under bunks at sea, or lie snugly along the side of a
mule. They had once been japanned black. Hard service had worn away much
of the japan: some of the tin shewed bright, the rest was battered and
discoloured. On the top of the lid of one of them was the letter D in
what had once been white paint: on the top of the lid of the other was
most of the letter W. Both trunks had been neglected for some time.
Sprays of creepers, which had thrust under the roof there, had grown
right over them. “D and W,” Hi repeated. “A letter has been blotted out
on both boxes. I suppose the man’s name is D . . . W . . . Dirty White,
or Dingy Welcome, or Doubtful Wanderer: the initials might stand for any
of them. They look like the sort of box a prospector would take.
Meanwhile, I should be the better for some sleep.”

He turned into his hammock, hoping that a rest would help to heal his
eyes; he saw the dog at the hut door nuzzle further into his flank; then
his overwhelming weariness pressed down upon him so that he slept
unheeding.

He woke some hours later with the feeling that someone was in the hut
wanting to speak to him. It was not easy to thrust aside such folds of
sleep; while he struggled with them, the someone, whoever he was, had
gone; there was no one there when he awoke. “Strange,” he said. “It
seemed as though someone were there. I thought that I saw someone, a
tallish chap, who had something to say. I suppose I dreamed it. I wish
that sleeping in this land didn’t give one this thick sort of brown
taste in the mouth whenever one wakes.”

He turned out to stretch, feeling stunned and stupid, but the better for
his rest. “I’ll see if the D. W. fellow has come back,” he thought.

He found that the village was taking the siesta; he had slept into the
afternoon; the village was more silent than it had been at any hour of
the night. He called at the door of the white man’s hut. “Are you there,
sir? May I speak with you?” As he had no answer, he peeped in; the white
man had not returned. “Still away,” Hi thought. “What a nuisance.”

He had the feeling that he must not enter the hut while the owner was
away. None the less, he looked curiously at the contents of the hut.
Some clothes of a yellowish drill were hanging from one of the posts,
with a leather belt on which the initial D was marked in black. At the
back of the hut, beyond the hammock, was a table, made of two planks
supported upon the taller sort of Indian stools, of the kind cut by them
for their god-houses. This table was heaped with objects, which seemed
to be mostly stones or lumps of ore; he could not make out what they
were. Under the table was another tin box marked D W upon the side; this
box was open and contained boots. The hammock had a good brown
camel-hair blanket rolled up across its foot. Hi had just such another
in his kit at Santa Barbara: his mother had chosen it for him, “For your
father says the nights can be very cold, even a month after the rains.”

There seemed to be nothing else worth notice in the hut, except the
usual canvas water bottle, holding a gallon, a canvas bucket with a
laniard spliced into its rim, and a canvas basin in which D. W. had
soaped himself that morning. Hi had experience of the things bought for
outfits; he noticed that all these things were very good of their kind
but the worse for wear. “No tools,” Hi thought. “He has a working or a
claim somewhere near; the tools will be there.”

“Well,” Hi said to himself, “I must not spy upon this man. I wish that
he would come back, so that I could have it out with him.”

He walked into the compound, where he passed an hour trying to make
friends with the parrots and the little dogs. Both were gentle yet
suspicious; he had no success with them. The day dragged heavily over
him, while he waited for D. W. to return. The village was interesting
and the forest beautiful. He longed to be out of both, going fast upon
his mission, while there was still hope.

After a while, he felt within himself the suggestion that there might be
something of interest in the hut where he had slept. He had not examined
it thoroughly; now that his eyes were so much less swollen, he felt that
that would be something to do; there might even be some book tossed
aside somewhere. He had seen no trace of a book in D. W.’s hut.

In the furthest corner of his hut was a small rubbish heap. He pulled a
half-burnt piece of wood from his fireplace. With this, he began to poke
aside the rubbish, to see what he could find. The rubbish was of all
sorts, much the worse for having been in a corner of the hut into which
the rain had blown. He found these things:

Part of a canvas sack, into which the ants had worked.

A briar pipe, much used, which had a bleached look from exposure.

Part of a leather strop that had been cut through.

Three small twists of tough galvanised wire.

Four bits of old bootlace.

A broken strap.

A screw eye.

A paper, containing a mouldy empty cardboard box for Marcham’s Patent
Trouser Buttons, with the legend, “No more sewing.”

Most of a pair of drill riding breeks made in Taunton. The ants had been
in these. Two envelopes, or parts of envelopes.

A sodden little fat book, rather like a newly-drowned puppy.

He brought this book into the light, so that he might examine it. It
proved to be a dumpy volume of Milton’s poems, complete in itself,
“printed 1828 for J. Smith, Bookseller, 193, High Holborn,” and bound in
green cloth boards. It opened at the frontispiece, of Milton “from an
Impression of a Seal,” opposite a vignette of Eve among some dahlias
beside a very wriggly snake. On the flyleaf of the book was an
inscription in faint ink in the handwriting of a woman:

                           To Dudley Wigmore,
                 from his Mother.   August 12th, 1881.

“Dudley Wigmore,” Hi said. “D. W. . . . So that is the fellow’s name, is
it? It is an odd book for him to have. And he might have been a little
more careful of a gift from his mother, one would think.”

The book was swollen and stuck together from being soaked; Hi opened it
in the sun, with great care. He knew little, certainly, about Milton,
except that he had written a poem called L’Allegro, which Hi had had to
learn by heart some years before at his prep. school. “I daresay I’ll
like it better now,” he said. “Anyhow this is a book, and a very famous
book: there must be something in it. And it will be something to do to
try to dry it without pulling out the leaves.”

After he had opened the book to dry, he went back to look at the rubbish
heap for more treasures. He found nothing more in that heap, except some
rags which the ants and grubs had riddled to pieces. He looked at the
two bits of envelope, both of which bore English stamps. On one of the
stamps part of the postmark could be made out when the paper was held to
the light. Hi read the name “allet.” He tried to think of some English
place with a name which ended in “allet”: he could think of none. “It
sounds liker a French name,” he thought. One of the pieces had been
addressed to

                        D. Wigm——
                            C/o Messrs. W——
                                Sant——

The rest was torn off. The other, which was smaller, had only a bit of
the flap, the stamp, and the ends of an address, in a different hand,
thus:

                          —— Esq.,
                                —— et Cie.

Hi dropped the bits of paper on to the heap. Some of the leaves of the
Milton were now dry: he turned them, so that others might dry. Having
nothing else to do, he brought out the stools from his hut, rested the
book on one, sat on the other, and passed some hours, reading bits of
the poem as the leaves dried. The Indians looked at him with curiosity
and fear, thinking that he was practising magic. His mood and that place
gave the poetry a value which it had not held (for Hi) in the prep.
school. “When my eyes are better,” he thought, “I will read this all
through. It is a wonderful thing.”

The day passed thus hour by hour with no sign of the white man. Some
Indians who had come to the poblacion with cassava, brought out some
stew for Hi with a piece of hot bread, which he ate. Having eaten, he
brought the stools and the book into the hut where he had slept.

“It is strange,” Hi said. “Whenever I come into this hut I have the
feeling that there is somebody here. It is the way that this
hammock-post catches the light.”

The sun was now fast dropping behind Melchior, so that it lit up the end
of the hut where the rubbish had been thrown. Something sparkled on the
floor beyond the rubbish. Hi picked it up. It was a little gold locket
clipped to a rusty steel watch-chain. After wiping the locket, he opened
it, with some trouble. It contained a tiny photograph, not so big as his
thumbnail, of a young woman’s face. She was a handsome young woman, of
the hawk brunette type.

“I suppose that this is his girl,” Hi thought, closing the locket. “He
must have dropped this somehow in the dark; he’ll be glad to have it
again.”

He dropped the locket on to one of the wooden stools, so that he might
have it at hand when D. W. returned; then he sat in his hammock,
thinking of Carlotta. “Early to-morrow,” he thought. “Early to-morrow,
whatever happens, I shall get away from here. Even now, with luck, I
might not be too late. But I simply must not be too late. I must be in
time.”

As the light suddenly passed from the world at the dropping of the sun
behind Melchior, he wondered whether after all he would be in time. It
was hard to say what might have happened under a madman like Don Lopez.
Supposing that the worst had happened? Supposing that he were not in
time?

He was weary from the hardships of the journey, all his body was crying
out for rest. He edged himself into his hammock, for the comfort of
lying prone, and there fell asleep. He slept heavily, having still some
arrears to make up, and yet, for all its soundness, his sleep was
troubled with the sense that all was not well. Gradually, as his sleep
weakened, he began to feel that there was an unhappiness, or something
worse, close to him: someone in distress was there. “Ah,” he answered in
his sleep, “it is you, Carlotta. All right, I’ll do my best to warn him
and bring him. I’ll do my best, though I do seem to have muddled
things.” Then, as his sleep weakened still more, he knew that it was not
Carlotta who was there, but a man who had been there before.

“Yes,” he said, in his sleep, “there was a man in the hut this
afternoon: so he is here again; well, what can I do for him? Where are
you? Let’s have a look at you.”

He struggled out of his sleep to a knowledge of the waking world, which
came upon him slowly, as another world, that had taken its place, moved
away in fiery mist. He saw, or thought that he saw, the man standing
near the hut entrance, looking at him, with sad eyes. “All right,” Hi
cried.

“Is it supper-time? I’ve been asleep, but I’m awake. I’ll be up in one
moment.” As he blinked and sat up, the figure faded away into the
darkness behind it, which was now a blackness of leaves moving against
stars. “It was only a dream, after all,” Hi said. “But it is odd how
there always seems to be a man here. I suppose one gets to imagine these
things.”

He came back fully to the world of the village, where now lamps and
fires were burning, women singing and the tom-tom drumming. “I’ll see if
D. W. has come back,” he said.

He was prevented by the entrance of Chug-chug, who came to ask him by
signs to come to the other hut. “D. W. is back, then,” he thought. “Now
for it.”

He followed Chug-chug to the other hut, which was lit by three lamps. A
trestle-table had been rigged up, food was set upon it. The man sat on
his camp-chair at the table-head, facing Hi. He had a much worn
cartridge belt slung over his shoulder: one of the pouches of it was
stamped D. W. He had been cleaning a light sporting rifle with a
pull-through and an oily feather: he now held the rifle across his
knees, and kept opening the breech and snapping it to. Hi could see him
more clearly than had been possible to him the night before. In the
main, he felt his impression confirmed, that he did not like the man:
there was more force in him than wisdom or goodness.

“You’d better have some chow, chum,” the man said.

The chow was the oily, peppery meat stew, served with cassava bread, of
which Hi had already eaten twice that day.

“Find yourself a pew there,” the man said. He was not a gracious host:
he seemed to resent Hi’s presence there, yet this was a kind of
invitation from him to sit down and dine. Hi pulled a stool to the table
and sat down.

“I suppose I’d better introduce myself,” the man said, “like the ladies
do at these receptions. Did you ever hear of Brocket Letcombe-Bassett,
the hundred yards Blue?”

“No,” Hi said.

“Well, he is my father’s second cousin. My father’s a clergyman, or was.
I don’t know whether he’s still alive; I don’t much care.”

“Then are you Mr. Letcombe-Bassett?”

“Yes.”

“Then is there another Englishman here; a Mr. Wigmore?”

“Wigmore? Did you know him?” the man asked.

“No,” Hi said. “But I found a book of his and this little gold locket.
Did you know him?”

“Yes, he was a prospector here,” the man said. “He died of forest fever
here a couple of years ago.”

“Poor chap,” Hi said. It seemed a lonely death for a man with a mother
and a lover.

“Yes,” the man said. “He died of forest fever a couple of years ago.
There’s a lot of forest fever here as soon as the rains call off.”

“Were you with him when he died?” Hi asked.

“Not actually with him, no; but in at the death, yes. I was as near as I
wanted to be. Forest fever’s an easily caught complaint.”

“Is he buried here?”

“Yes; or not far from here. I had the Indians to bury him. Indian
fashion, in a hole in the hut.”

“In the hut where I am?”

“The hut where you are? No. In the hut in the bush where he kicked the
bucket.”

“Were you able to let his people know that he was dead?” Hi asked.

“No; I didn’t know that he had any people.”

“Hadn’t he letters?” Hi asked. “There are scraps of letters in the hut;
torn up. Perhaps we could piece them together.”

“There weren’t any letters,” the man said. “Wigmore had no letters. I
expect you saw bits of some of mine, from my loving father: blast him.”

“No, these were to Wigmore.”

“Oh,” the man said. “Well, I saw none. I looked through his things. Of
course, out here, an Englishman with another Englishman, that was the
least one could do.”

“He had a girl and a mother.”

“How the hell do you know? I knew Wigmore well, my damned young cub. As
well, that is, as anyone could know a fellow of that stamp.”

“I don’t know about damned and cub,” Hi said. “I’m not your father.”

The man stared at him for an instant with a look of fury, which died on
the instant into contempt.

“I was talking about Wigmore,” he said. “If you think that this is a
Sunday school, you’ll learn it isn’t.”

“I think no such thing,” Hi said. “But I won’t take ‘damned young cub’
from a hundred yards Blue, let alone his second cousin.”

“The hell you won’t,” the man said. “Well, I always liked guts, so we’ll
reckon it not said.”

“All right,” Hi said. “As we were. I really thought that you were
Wigmore. The book was from his mother, and the locket has a picture of
his girl inside it. That was what made me think that he must have people
alive.”

“He was a very odd fish, Wigmore,” the man said. “He was a man under a
cloud. When you come to one of these solitary men, prospecting in a
place like this, you may always be sure that there’s something wrong. He
never talked about his past; but he let you see he had one. He drank
like a fish, too.”

“Did he ever find any gold?” Hi asked.

“He was one of these pleasure-miners. They always get enough to pay
their Indios and keep themselves in cartridges. They go brown after a
bit; that is, they turn Indian.”

By this time, he had slung his rifle by its bandolier to the crutch in
the post. Hi could see the initials D. W. burned upon the stock: it had
been Wigmore’s rifle in the past. Hi was uneasy at the way the man spoke
about Wigmore: he wished to know more.

“It’s a pretty awful end,” Hi said, “to die out here in the wilderness,
all those thousands of miles from home.”

“Damned sight better end than being poisoned by doctors in a frowsy
hospital.”

“I wish we could make out enough bits of letters to find out where his
people are,” Hi said.

“There aren’t any letters, I told you.”

“There are bits of letters, because I saw them. Do you know, there is
one way we could find out about him?”

“How?” the man asked, with a sudden close attention.

“From people in Santa Barbara. He had a letter addressed to him in the
care of a French firm in Santa Barbara. I expect that they were his
agents. There can’t be more than two or three French houses in Santa
Barbara. I could enquire at them all, and through them we could easily
find out where he came from.”

“Agents? A French firm?” the man said. “You mean Chardenal? It is a
general stores in Santa Barb’. He used to get his stores there. They
weren’t his agents: he was a customer there. As a matter of fact, I sent
an Indio in with a chit to them when Wigmore died to cancel his last
order. They know that he is dead.”

“Wouldn’t they know where he came from?”

“He was a very dark horse, Wigmore. He never told that to me, in all the
months we were together. I don’t see why he should have told his
grocers.”

“I suppose you don’t know any English town with a name ending in
‘allet,’ do you?” Hi asked.

“Allet?” the man said, suspiciously. “No, I don’t know any bally
‘allet.’ If you’d ask my opinion, I should say you were getting Wigmore
on the brain. Are you sure you’ve not got a touch of forest fever? It
often begins like that: getting excited about somebody’s bally corpse
and that.”

“I’m not excited about him,” Hi said. “Only it is rather rough on his
mother and girl, if they are wondering about him, and hoping to hear
from him all this time.”

“As I said before,” the man said, “I don’t believe for one moment that
he had a mother and girl. In all the months I knew him I never knew him
mention them nor have any letter from them. Put him out of your mind. He
was a dark horse and a tank. It’s my believe that he was wanted for
something: anyway he was under a cloud. Now about yourself: you say you
want to get to Anselmo? Is that near Santa Barbara? Well, if it is, it’s
seventy miles from here; and here is twenty miles from any road there.”

“Could you let one of your Indios guide me to the road there, early
to-morrow?” Hi asked. “My eyes are well enough. The swelling will
probably be quite gone by to-morrow.”

“I couldn’t, to-morrow,” the man said.

“Why not? I’d be ever so much obliged if you would.”

“I couldn’t send an Indio to-morrow: he wouldn’t go if I did: it will be
one of their moon-feasts.”

“Well, then; why not to-night?”

“You’re not fit to go to-night: besides, these Aracuis won’t move a step
at night. I don’t blame them. The snakes are abroad. Then there are
tigers. Besides, there are too many ghosts for them.”

“I would chance the ghosts,” Hi said, “if you would direct me on my
way.”

“You would never find your way,” the man said. “I couldn’t hope to show
it to you in a first quarter moon.”

“Will you show it to me to-morrow?”

“Yes, I’ll show it to you to-morrow.”

“Early; first thing? Would you mind starting early, so that I may reach
the road before dark?”

“I’ll start fairly early.”

“Will you tell me what you are?” Hi said. “I mean, what you do out here
in the wilderness?”

“I?” the man said. “I’m one of the damned lost souls, who like my own
way and mind my own business.”

“Certainly,” Hi said. “I didn’t mean to be inquisitive.”

“You say you haven’t any money?”

“No.”

“Do you play cribbage?”

“Yes.”

“It’s not much fun playing anything without having something on the
game. Haven’t you got a ticker?”

“Yes, but the water’s got into it. It’s stopped.”

“Then you haven’t got a tosser?”

“No.”

“Damn well on your uppers?”

“Yes.”

“My God, My Father, while I stray. You’d better go and turn in, then, if
you want this early start. I can’t play beggar-my-neighbour with you,
like a damned kid. Next time you look in, you’d better bring some
ooftish to cover your cards with: your mess-bills, too, if you don’t
mind.”

“I’m sorry that I’ve no money,” Hi said. “But as for mess-bills, if
you’ll tell me your name and agents, I’ll pay what you think fair for
what I have had here. Or you can take my watch. It is a good one and
nearly new: it will go well when cleaned.”

“We’ll talk about bills to-morrow,” the man said. “You’d better go and
turn in.”

“Very well. Good-night.”

The man did not answer. He stood staring at Hi out of his cold, hard
blue eyes: his lip was lifted in a sneer. Hi felt that he had never yet
met a man so hateful. “He is a loathsome swine,” he thought. “A vile,
taunting, silver-ring tick.”

He came to his hut and again had the sensation that someone was there:
this time so strongly that he called out. “Yes, who is it, there?”
before he saw that there was no one. “It is odd,” he said, “I keep
thinking that there’s a man here. I’ve got to be all jumpy from being in
the forest; and then, this hammock-post is like a man, and gives me the
illusion every time. I wish there were a man here, Dudley Wigmore or
another; then I might not be so dependent on this sneering devil.”

Still raging against the man, he turned into his hammock to think of
things which did not bear thought; Carlotta and Rosa depending on him;
Carlotta’s marvellous grace, beauty and goodness; now in gaol among
blackguards at the whim of a madman; then, himself, who was to have
saved her, all astray in a forest, all those miles from even beginning
to send word about her. There was no sleep for one with thoughts like
that.

Sleep would not have been easy in any case, for the village was
celebrating something, a hunt or a moon-feast: he could not tell what.
Half a dozen drums were beating. Presently the boys of the tribe lit a
bonfire in the midst of the _patio_ or space in the midst of the
village. They piled it high with wood which the women had collected
during the day. As soon as it burned well, they began to march round it,
blowing into horns of one note and flutes of two notes: some of them
clacked discs of hard wood or rattled beans in goobies: those who could
not make music, sang. The little, sharp-eared dogs sitting on their
haunches at the hut doors put back their heads, till they seemed all
throat, and sang likewise. The babies wakened from their sleep wailed
upon high notes. The men of the tribe sang or told stories: the women
and little girls dragged wood for the fire.

“I might be a thousand miles from anywhere,” Hi thought. “It may take me
days to get to Anselmo or anywhere else.”

The bonfire lit up the inside of his hut so as to shew the tin boxes
marked D and W. Since he could not sleep, his mind turned to these
boxes. “There is something queer about this man,” Hi said to himself.
“There is something odd about his relations with Wigmore. He said
something about these solitary prospectors being always bad eggs; well,
he doesn’t strike one as being a very lofty egg. He says he went through
Wigmore’s things and found no letters. I know that there were letters,
which he pitched on to the rubbish pile only a little while ago. He made
no effort to find Wigmore’s friends. It’s true that he says he sent in
an account of his death; yet he wears Wigmore’s belt and uses his rifle.
And then, to keep away from the poor chap while he was ill: good Lord.”

There rose in his mind suddenly the image of the forest fever, as a grey
thing without a head, a thing like a worm, which said: “It is just after
the rains now: very likely I have put a touch upon you, so that people
will leave you in a hut till you are dead. It is a very catching
complaint, the forest fever.”

“Very likely,” he said, “very likely I have caught the fever: in which
case they’ll never know at home what became of me: no one will ever
know, except the Indians who will bury me here.”

“I’m going to look in those boxes,” he said, turning out of his hammock.
“Perhaps there is some map or chart, if Wigmore was a prospector. With a
map I might be able to find out where I am and how to get away from
here.”

He pulled out the nearer of the two tin boxes from its covering of
creeper. It felt and proved to be empty save for two small studs and a
trouser button. He tipped the box on its side, to make sure that there
was no label or address. “No further help there,” he said. “Now for the
other.”

The second box had been used to block a hole which the dogs had routed
in the hut wall. It had been weighted inside with a biggish hewn stone,
so that the dogs should not thrust it aside. Beside the stone were some
scraps of rubbish which Hi brought out to the light to examine. The
things were:

A buckle of a strap.

Two halves of a lead pencil which had fallen apart.

The lead of the pencil.

A mouldy piece of knotted ribbon, which looked as if it had once gone
round a packet of letters.

Two sodden letters in envelopes, both post-marked Shepton Mallet, the
one on February 1st, the other February 8th, 1886, and addressed,
“Dudley Wigmore, Esq., c/o The United Sugar Company, Santa Barbara.” One
of these letters was signed “from mother”: the other was from “your
loving May.”

Last of all was a much-weathered, ant-eaten pocket-book, sodden with
damp and so clutched together by a rubber band as to be liker a piece of
mouldy wood than a book.

“This is queer,” Hi said. “These letters have been opened and carried
about in a man’s pocket. They are dated only about thirteen months ago.
Yet that fellow said that Wigmore died a couple of years ago.” Either
Wigmore was alive a year ago, or that tick opened his letters a year
after he was dead. It isn’t likely that that fellow could have made a
mistake about Wigmore’s death. He said ‘a couple of years.’ One could
hardly go wrong on a point of that sort. One would remember when the
only white man within twenty miles died.

“Then that fellow said, that Wigmore was a prospector, a pleasure-miner,
and drank like a fish. Now it’s odd that there are none of the
prospector’s things here: no pans and sieves for washing, no scales nor
any stuff for making assays. Then if he drank like a fish, it is odd
that there are no bottles left. It wouldn’t have been easy to drink like
a fish out here; but if he drank at all he drank from bottles, and there
are no bottles nor parts of bottles. Now father said that any forest
Indian would work for a week for a bottle, which is a very valuable
possession here. They make bottles into lamps, canteens, jewels, knives,
scrapers and arrow-heads. There isn’t a trace of a bottle in this
settlement, that I can see. So probably Wigmore didn’t drink like a
fish. Probably also he wasn’t a prospector. Probably also he didn’t die
a couple of years ago, but a year at most. This man has been lying about
him. If he lied about his life, probably he has lied about his death.
There has been a Wigmore here; that Wigmore is probably dead. The man
who knows about his death has his gun and cartridges, and perhaps also
his gold-claim and his mining things. The man who lies about him has
profited by his disappearance. Supposing this man, whoever he is, this
hundred yards Blue man, should have murdered Wigmore, in order to take
his things?

“Who is this hundred yards Blue man? I’ll bet that name isn’t his real
name, but a false name given to make me think that he is related to
decent people. He is not a gentleman nor a man of ordinary decent
feeling: he is a tick or criminal. I wouldn’t be a bit surprised if he
has murdered Wigmore. If he thinks that I think that, he’ll probably
murder me. I don’t think he’d think twice about murdering a chap. I’ll
have to be jolly careful to-morrow. But, first, I’ll look at this book,
to see if it will help at all.”

The book proved to be little better than pulp. It had been at one time a
neat oblong pocket-book with a cover of black leather: now the dye in
the cover and the endpapers had soaked through into the leaves, which
were stuck together and stained like crushed blackberries. In the centre
were two leaves which contained some legible jottings in pencil in a
neat handwriting. They were seemingly columns of names. Closer
examination shewed Hi that they were lists of words in different
tongues. The left hand columns contained English words, the other
columns were the Indian words in different dialects.

“It’s a vocabulary or dictionary. A polyglot Indian dictionary,” Hi
said. “That explains what the man was. He was one of these men who write
books about the Indians, and Indian grammars. This isn’t the hand of a
man who goes pleasure-mining. This chap was a scholar. The only
prospecting this fellow did was finding a new tribe with a different
dialect.”

He had been standing bent over the book close to the door of the hut,
where the glow of the bonfire lit his examination. Something told him
suddenly that he was being observed. Looking up, to his left, to the
point prompted to him, he saw Letcombe-Bassett standing at the mouth of
another hut, three parts hidden, watching him. “The beast has been
spying on me,” Hi thought, turning away. “He knows that I think things
are a little fishy: he has been watching to see what I have been doing.”

The thought of being spied upon made him at first uneasy, then gay. “If
it comes to spying,” he thought, “I’ll see if I cannot lead you a
dance.”

He put the book on the shelf of the post for the night: then he turned
into his hammock, thinking uneasy thoughts till he was almost asleep.

He was lying high up in his hammock, with his head propped by what
sailors would have called the nettles. A faint noise at the mouth of his
hut made him instantly alert: someone had crept stealthily thither,
breathing anxiously.

“Yes? Who is there?” Hi called.

“Oh, are you awake?” Letcombe-Bassett answered. “I was going quietly so
as not to wake you. I was afraid you might be asleep. I only wanted to
say that we’ll start in good time to-morrow, if you feel up to moving.”

“To Anselmo? I’m up to moving.”

“I know nothing about Anselmo. I can start to set you on a road which
will take you to Santa Barbara.”

“That will do. Thank you.”

“Right. We’ll start then after an early chow. Sleep easy.”

He moved across the hut entrance towards his own hut; Hi wished him
good-night. “He’s a pretty bad egg,” Hi thought. “He is here for no good
and he means me no good.”

These thoughts in his brain slowly merged into the noises of the
village, which in turn grew into a night that covered him: he fell
asleep in his hammock half covered by a quilt of cotton.

On this the sixth day of Hi’s journey, the five hundred odd men of Don
Manuel’s army made their first march of fifty miles to the eastward, so
as to camp at the water-holes at Amarga. At the water-holes, they were
joined by some seventy more men, who had either followed them, or ridden
in from the north or south. When they left Amarga they were more than
six hundred strong.