The sun was setting when he drove off in a caleche for the de Leyva
house at Medinas. On his way, he saw scenes between parties of Reds and
Whites which made him wonder at the strength of the feelings between
them. “Killing Chavez and claiming to be God did not rouse this,” he
thought. “This hate has been simmering for years; this is only the
boiling over.”

At the West Gate, a Red patrol was stopping the traffic for examination
before permitting it to pass; its officer turned back a carriage which
had been trundling in front of Hi for some minutes. He then came forward
to question Hi, found that he was English and allowed him to proceed. He
did this, as Hi thought, grudgingly, in a way which made him wonder,
whether the English were as much loved as his father had always said.

Beyond the gate, the Anselmo road was a narrow street from which narrow
courts opened. Street and courts swarmed with people, all talking at the
tops of their voices, but above all the talking the harsh bellow of
public orators in praise of violence sounded. The place stank of mice,
sweat, fried fish and damp washing. Hi called to the driver: “Is this
Medinas?”

“Medinas, si,” the driver said.

Little boys clambered on to the caleche, asking for “Frencha penny.
Ingles penny.” A fat, pale-faced young man hopped on to the step and
poised there while he made his proposals.

“You want to see the sights?” he said. “I be your guide. I show you very
funny sights. I show you not the usual sort of thing. You like a nice
cock-fight, no? You like a quail-fight, no? See now, I take you to a
special thing, not many knows about, a good dog-fight. There now, only
three dollar. Well, I take you to a special thing to-night; something
you never see, perhaps ever again. No? Well, you go to dam
prayer-meeting, see? dam prayer-meeting.”

He swung off to seek for a client elsewhere. The caleche passed from the
narrows into a broader space, went under an old archway of withering red
and yellow plaster and came out into an avenue of palms lit by electric
light. Turning from this through an ilex grove it stopped at the de
Leyva palace.

Hi was admitted into a great cool hall built of white Otorin marble. All
round it and against its columns were the stands of the de Leyva armour,
some of which had marched in the Conquest. Carlotta joined him almost at
once; he gave her the letter.

“I thought that perhaps you would bring a letter,” she said. “I suppose
Rosa wants me to go back to her? My brother is against that.”

“I hope,” Hi said, “I do hope that Don Manuel will not be attacked by
these Reds.”

“He is far away by this time.”

Hi felt that he had said a tactless thing, even to suggest that Don
Manuel might be attacked, so he added:

“I should pity the man who attacked Don Manuel.”

“It is nice of you to say that, Hi,” she said.

“Did he see the proclamation, or hear of the murder, before he started?”
Hi asked.

“No. Rosa tells me that his captive, the Hinestrosa, has been rescued.”

“Yes.”

“What do you think of my country?”

“It’s produced you and Don Manuel and Donna Emilia,” he said. “I think
it’s a marvellous country.”

“It may be marvellous, if it turn now.”

“It will turn,” he said. “No nation will stand that proclamation.”

“If a nation be only mad enough, it will stand anything,” she said.

“I hope,” Hi said, “that Don Manuel will find his mother better, when he
gets there.”

“I fear that there is little hope of that,” she said. “A telegram came
here . . . he can hardly see his mother alive again.”

“I am sorry to hear that.”

“Others are not so sorry,” she said, in a strange voice. He looked at
her with a rush of understanding that she was standing alone, through
her love of Don Manuel.

“Oh, but they must be,” he said.

“Sorry?” she said. “Alas, they are thanking God that my lover is out of
the way at this time. You do not know the Whites: how broken we are into
cliques. My brother, a great man in so many ways, dreads and hates my
lover: he thinks him too dangerous: he wants Bazan to lead the party. If
Manuel were here now, Bazan would not stand for five minutes. Then, I
suppose, my brother would challenge Manuel to a duel. So, if I bring
Manuel back, I break with all I have loved in the past.”

“But you will bring him back,” Hi said.

She looked at him in a way which he never forgot; but she did not
answer.

“Let me go and bring him back for you,” Hi pleaded. “Of course, I’m only
a boy, but I’ll go like a shot. I’ll take any message you like. Do let
me. I’ll never be anything again all my life, probably, except just a
planter. But just this once let me ride for you. I only saw you for the
first time this morning; but you don’t know what you are to me . . . in
my life, I mean . . . you I mean, just there being such a person. Of
course, you’re sick of men saying this to you. Miss de Leyva, will you
let me go?”

“Carlotta will not let you go,” she said, “I’m sure Miss de Leyva won’t.
But I cannot bring Manuel here, against my brother’s prayers, even if I
would, from his mother’s death-bed. But there is one thing which I wish
you would do for me: take a note from me to Rosa.”

“Of course, I’ll gladly take a note,” he said, “and bring back an
answer.”

“There will be no answer. You will just have time to leave the note and
get back to your hotel before the streets are cleared.”

While she wrote the note, Hi thought of a suggestion.

“I say,” he said. “Quite apart from calling Don Manuel here, there is
some point in letting him know the news and telling him not to come.
Couldn’t you let me do that for you?”

“You’re very determined, Hi,” she said. “But you must stay in Santa
Barbara and keep out of our politics.”

“But why? You will have to send someone.”

“I will not send you, Hi.”

“Why not? Have you anybody better?”

“There could not be anybody better, nor as good; but this is not a thing
I could let you attempt. Do you know, that if the Reds were to find you
doing this you might be expelled the country, or even shot.”

“For taking a message?”

“That counts as spying in time of war.”

“Who would know that I was taking a message? I should just be an English
tourist. That settles it. I’ll go off and get a horse and start at once
and find him and tell him.”

“No, no,” she said. “It is impossible.”

“Because I’m a boy and don’t know Spanish?”

“No, no, indeed,” she said, “but because we want you to settle here.
Become a citizen later, if you wish, but, until then, you must avoid our
troubles. Now here is my note to Rosa, if you will deliver it.”

It was very dim in the hall away from the tapers on the writing table.
There were amphoræ full of sweet-smelling shrubs. He could see her face
and hands against the darkness of the leaves: her head seemed crowned by
white flowers. She switched on some lights so that the hall seemed
suddenly full of armed men.

“Will you give me a sprig of those flowers?” he asked.

“Willingly.” She broke a spray for him.

“What is the flower?”

“Hermosita.”

“May I ever see you again?”

“Of course. Come to-morrow to lunch: you must meet my brother.”

“Oh, thank you. I’ll bring back an answer from Rosa, if she sends one.
Anything that I can ever do for you will always be absolute happiness;
you know that, don’t you?”

“Thank you, Hi.”

She gave him her hand, in the foreign fashion, to kiss: he was grateful
for this. A clock chimed for half-past seven. “You must go,” she said,
“you haven’t much time.”