At the time of the Spanish Conquest the lowlands were inhabited by small
warlike tribes of Caribs who lived in stockaded settlements near the
coasts. Of these tribes, the Araguayas, of Meruel, and the Pitubas, of
Pituba, were the most important. When the Spaniards landed, Don Manuel
of Encinitas, the Conquistador of the State, allied himself to the
Pitubas by marrying the daughter of their chief. With the help of his
allies he exterminated the Araguayas and drove the survivors of all
other tribes into the forests of the south, where a few of their
descendants still exist, as forest-Indians; that is, as the shadows of
what they were.

After the conquest, vast tracks of land in Encinitas were granted to Don
Manuel: other tracts in San Jacinto were granted to a Castilian noble,
from whom they passed to a branch of the de Leyvas.

The colony or province of Santa Barbara was administered like all other
Spanish possessions in the New World for a little more than three
centuries. Jesuit missionaries converted the Indians; the owners of
haciendas imported negroes. In the course of the three centuries the
northward provinces became sparsely inhabited by horse and cattle
breeders, sugar-growers, rum-makers and copper-miners, governed (if it
can be called government) by a Viceroy in Santa Barbara city.

In the year 1817, the inhabitants, following the example of other
Spanish colonists, broke the link with Spain, by declaring the land to
be the Republic of Santa Barbara, with a Constitution partly modelled
upon that of the United States. At the time of the foundation of the
Republic the State contained, perhaps, one hundred thousand souls, of
whom not more than one-third were white.

It happened that a retired English naval lieutenant named William
Higgs-Rixon took a prominent part in the capture of Santa Barbara from
the Spanish garrison. For this reason, and from the fact that English
merchants were the only traders to and from the country, English was
taught in the schools, and English people were (as they still are)
popular throughout the State. After the War of Independence a good many
Englishmen came (and were welcomed) as settlers in the land about Santa
Barbara city. In the ’fifties and ’sixties the copper boom brought
others, mostly Cornishmen, to Matoche. After the Redemption War a good
many more (mostly from the northern Midlands) came to Meruel, to mine
iron or coal. In the ’seventies others, from all parts of England,
settled as sugar-planters along the northern sea coast in the Pituba
country. These men, though they were but a sprinkling, helped profound
changes in the land, which in three generations of men multiplied the
population tenfold.

It is well, now, to talk of these changes.

Soon after the establishment of the Republic the two political parties
in the land became defined as Feudalist and Modernist. In Encinitas and
in western San Jacinto, the will of the great landowners was still law:
in Santa Barbara City, Pituba and in Meruel a new and vigorous race was
demanding freedom from the feudal lords and wider teaching than the
priests gave. As the feeling between the two parties ran highest upon
the point of Church teaching, the Church party, which was that of the
great landlords, came to be known as the Surplices or Whites. For a
while, as the Reds were without a leader, the governments of the
Republic were White.

Mention was made of one Lopez Zubiaga, who seized the coal country of
Redemption in 1865. This Lopez, born in 1840, was the first leader of
the Red or forward party to count in affairs. At the time of the
Redemption raid, he was a tall, strongly built, masterful and very
handsome young man, with a contemptuous manner and savage courage. He
was fair-haired and blue-eyed, which made some think that he was not the
son of the landowner, but of an Englishman, named variously Corbet,
Corphitt or Cardiff, about whom there had been talk.

After his success in seizing Redemption, Lopez was elected President of
the Republic in place of old General Chavez, the White. As President he
rallied the Reds, and carried through what was called “the Liberal
Struggle,” which made all Meruel and Redemption places of mines and
factories, and took the schools from the control of the Church. After
four years of his Presidency, the Whites returned to office, under the
hidalgo, Miguel de Leyva, of San Jacinto, a man of burning faith, more
ardent than wise, who provoked the forward party almost to the point of
civil war. At the next election, the Whites were turned out of office
and the Reds put in, with such unanimity that Lopez could rule as he
chose. After the election of 1878, which repeated his triumph, Lopez
declared himself Dictator, “while his country had need of him.”

Miguel de Leyva, disgusted, retired from politics: the Whites had no
other leader, save young General Luis Chavez, who was indolent, and
Hermengildo Bazan, who was only a speaker.

The Dictatorship of Lopez was marked outwardly by a great increase in
the foreign trade of the eastern provinces, the threefold growth of the
city of Santa Barbara, and an improvement of all the ports, harbours and
coastwise railways. After 1884, those who studied the land’s politics
felt that the real Dictator was no longer Lopez, but old Mordred
Weycock, the manager of the United Sugar Company, an unscrupulous
business man.

It was at this time that the oddness and brusqueness in Lopez’ character
changed to a madness not likely to be forgotten.