“Rosa, my daughter,” Donna Emilia said, “I have had such a strange
message from Señora Artigas. Her son, Estifanio, has disappeared.”

“We passed him in the cathedral last night, mother, at about six or
half-past, as we left the service.”

“He was at home after that. At nearly midnight two young men, in evening
dress, called for him to say that Porfirio Rivera, his great friend, had
been hurt in a duel, was dying, and had asked for him. Estifanio did not
know the young men; but, of course, he went with them, and he has not
returned.”

“If his friend were dying, mother, he would stay with him.”

“But the story was false, my dear. Porfirio called for Estifanio this
morning; he had fought no duel, is in perfect health, and has sent no
message. Estifanio has disappeared. Imagine his mother’s anxiety.”

Hi saw Rosa and Carlotta look at each other with a glance which he could
not interpret. He felt that there was trouble and that he had better say
something.

“We had a fellow at school,” he said, “who disappeared one summer
holidays. He went out in a boat with another fellow. The boat upset, but
they were picked up by a steamer. However, the steamer was carrying the
mails and could not stop, so these two fellows had to go all the way to
New York before they could send a message home. They’d both been buried,
or at least had the burial-service read over them by that time.”

“Estifanio will turn up, in the same way, mother,” Rosa said.

“I trust so,” the old lady said. “Suddenness of death is ever a thing I
pray God to spare my friends.”

“Estifanio is a great hunter,” Carlotta said. “He rides out to this
‘drag,’ do you call it? which the English have started. Are you fond of
hunting, Mr. Ridden?” He thought her an angel of tact to have changed
the conversation a little.

“I love riding,” he said, “but of course, my father only lets me ride
the old crocks. Still, sometimes he lets me be his second horseman, and
then I have had some wonderful times.”

“Rosa said that you are fond of engines.”

“Yes, I love engines.”

“So do I,” she said. “I’m racing my brother with one. He is having an
irrigation canal dug by men, and I am doing a little bit of it with
machines; but the nature of the ground doesn’t make it quite a fair
match. What engines interest you most?”

“No particular engine,” he said, “but more the nature of engines. I’m
always thinking of all sorts of little engines which everybody could
have. For instance, a little engine to sweep the floor of a room, or
dust walls, or clean big glass panes like the windows of shops. Then, I
expect you’ll think it very silly, but don’t you think one could have a
little engine on a boat?”

“Oh, the engine on a boat,” Rosa said. “Hi is a lovely character,
Carlotta. He would die for me or for you at a moment’s notice; but the
engine on a boat is his mad streak. Of course it’s nice to have a mad
streak; it shows the oldness of your family; but there it is.”

“Why should there not be an engine on a boat?” Carlotta asked. “What
sort of little engine do you mean, Mr. Ridden?”

“Oh, call him Hi, Carlotta,” Rosa said. “This is his home here,
remember; call him Hi.”

“I don’t know whether he will let me,” Carlotta said.

“I’ll be frightfully proud if you will,” Hi said, and blushed scarlet,
and knew that Rosa watched the blush.

“What sort of engine . . . Hi?” Carlotta asked.

“Thank you,” he said, wondering whether he would ever be able to save
her life and in reward be asked to call her Carlotta.

“You see,” he said, “Rosa is always ragging. She worked at this engine
when she was in England. You see, we live in a part of England which is
mostly rolling grass hills. We call them downs, but they are really a
sort of ups. Well, we are a good long way from the Thames; too far to go
for a day’s boating. Now I’m not much good at rowing, but I do love
messing about in a boat. I mean, being in a boat.”

“I do, too,” Carlotta said; “there is a sort of lake at home. I go out
in a boat to watch the flamingoes.”

“We’ve not got any lake, alas,” Hi said, “but there is a little sort of
brook, or chalk-stream. It’s got plenty of water always, but it isn’t
broad enough for oars. So what I’ve always wanted to do is to make a
little engine to go in a boat. I don’t mean a steam-engine, but a hand
engine, so that one could have the exercise of rowing. A man would sit
on the thwart and turn a crank, or pull it to and fro, and that would
turn a paddle-wheel; only I don’t want the paddle-wheel to be at the
side, but either in front or let into the boat in a sort of well, so as
not to take up room. They all say that it couldn’t go, but I say it must
go.”

“Of course it would go,” Carlotta said.

“How could it go?” Rosa asked. “It could no more go than if you were to
stand in the boat and pull the boat-rope.”

“You’ve not even got enough mechanical sense, Rosa,” Hi said, “to make
you keep quiet when mechanics are being talked. If I’d had an old boat
or punt to experiment on, instead of a clothes-basket covered with
rick-cloth, I’d have proved that my thing would go.”

“If it would go, why hasn’t it been done? All the English are always
messing about in boats.”

“My engine is not for ordinary rivers, but for the brooks at home, or
even the canals, where you cannot always row, nor even paddle in
comfort.”

“There wasn’t much comfort in your clothes-basket, if I remember
rightly,” Rosa said.

“There isn’t much comfort in any good thing.”

“I should have thought religion,” Rosa said.

“You try it and see.”

“Manuel is very late,” Donna Emilia said. “We’re almost at an end here.
Do you think that he will come, ’Lotta?”

“Yes, I think I hear him.” A horse came at a quick canter up the drive.
Carlotta turned to Hi.

“After my marriage,” she said, “you must come out to stay with us, if
you will. There are rivers there not unlike what I should imagine yours
to be, and rolling hills of grass.”

“I would love that,” he said. He looked at her, and was at once shot
through with anguish to think that she was to be married to a man not
good enough for her. “He has frightened her,” he thought, “or got some
hold upon her, in the way these beasts do.”

Suddenly he realised that Don Manuel was there, kissing Donna Emilia’s
hand; he must have come in like a panther.

“I say,” he thought, “what a man.”

All manly strength, beauty and grace moved in that figure; but the face
was the extraordinary thing; it won Hi at once, partly by its power,
partly by its resemblance to the bust of the young Napoleon on the
landing at the Foliats. The man turned to Hi, with eyes most strange,
masterful, unbearable and bright as flames. “This is an extraordinary
man,” Hi thought. “Either splendid or very queer, perhaps both.” The
extraordinary man greeted him in English; then burst out with:

“Ah, I am glad to see you, Mr. Ridden. Your father sixteen years ago
sent me two English hunting saddles, because I rode his stallion, what?
And how is your father? And how do you like Santa Barbara? Ah, your
father; I was proud of those saddles; no gift have I liked so. You shall
come to me at Encinitas and ride and ride. That is the life, what?”

He took Hi’s hands in both his own, in his impulsive way, and looked
into his eyes, in a way that was both frightening and winning; it
entirely won Hi.

“You’re not a bit like your father,” he said, “not a little bit. Your
father likes being top-dog; sometimes bully, sometimes blarney. You want
to make things. I know your sort.

“Where are you staying?” he continued. “At the Santiago? That’s a vile
hole, the Santiago. Yet all our visitors form their first impressions
there. Whereabouts have they put you?”

“On the third floor,” Hi said, “Room 67.”

“Looking out on the back, what? Well, looking out on the front wouldn’t
have been much more cheerful. The palace, the Santiago and the
cathedral. I’d like to raze them all three and start afresh.

“By the way, about your Santiago. I am a night bird. I pass the back of
that hotel at night at two in the morning. You can get in at the back
through the cellar-grating. The negro waiters run a gambling hell there;
fan-tan, what? They also do a private trade in the hotel liquor. And now
forgive me everybody for being so late.”

“You are scandalously late, Manuel,” Rosa said. “You deserve no lunch.”

“I want no lunch,” he said, “but coffee and some bread. I am late,
because I have been tracking a crime. Estifanio Artigas was murdered in
this city last night.”

“Then it was murder?”

“We were talking of him a moment since.”

“That will be death to the poor mother; her only child.”

“There is more than this,” Carlotta said. “The murder was planned. By
whom?”

“The Murder Gang of the Palace. A club of young criminals headed by Don
José, the son of our Dictator, Mr. Ridden. They murdered the lad in that
tunnel or passage where the windmills used to be. I have been with the
murderer. Here’s a copy of his confession, made before Chacon, the
notary. I’ve sent copies of it to Chavez and Hermengildo, as well as to
your brother, Carlotta. Who could want food after this? Now the Whites
move again; we have a cause and a case.

“This Murder Club was founded by Don José at the end of last year as a
new excitement; he and eight young men are the members; all very select.
They have now murdered five men; one a month is their rule, each in a
different way.

“Pablo Hinestrosa was chosen to kill Estifanio. Two of the others came
to help him; four were posted, to keep guard during the murder; the
other two brought Estifanio to the place.

“I learned all this from Pablo’s own lips this morning.”

“Pablo Hinestrosa was always as weak as water,” Rosa said. “Cruel, too;
I remember him putting worms under his rocking horse as a little child.”

“I found Pablo in the street, as I came back from my ride this morning,”
Don Manuel continued. “He was crying and quaking; so I brought him to my
rooms. Bit by bit, I got the story out of him.”

“One moment, Manuel,” Carlotta said; “this Hinestrosa man, who is
plainly of weak intelligence, may have imagined all this.”

“Ah, no, alas,” Don Manuel said, “I have proved it to be true. One
decoyed the victim to the carriage, one drove the carriage to the
tunnel. Then the decoy led him into the tunnel, where Pablo killed him.
Don José helped in the killing. There were the tracks and the body,
everything corresponded exactly.

“You will think this next a strange thing:

“Don José is very clever as well as very vicious. He and Spallo took
Pablo home after the murder, and, as they saw that he was shaken, they
feared that he would betray them.

“Now Pablo feared that they feared this, so he contrived to leave them
where he could hear them talking. He heard Don José say: ‘I knew that he
would be sentimental. He will confess the whole thing to the first
priest he can find. Shall we finish him? It would be rather a neat end
to the night.’ It must have been an anxious moment for Pablo, waiting
for the answer; but Spallo said, ‘Better not. . . . He’ll be all right
after a sleep.’

“After that, Spallo and José went away, but now another strange thing
happened. When they had gone (so Pablo says) the ghost of Estifanio’s
father came in and sat beside him. He never spoke, but whenever Pablo
tried to run from the room, this ghost slid in front of him.”

“What happened then?”

“Pablo said that he ‘burned the ghost away, with matches and texts of
Scripture.’ When the ghost was gone he ran into the street; but it was
worse there, he said, because Estifanio kept looking through the windows
at him.

“I got a doctor to give him an opiate; now he’s asleep in Chacon’s
house.”

“God give us mercy,” Donna Emilia said. “Is there to be no measure to
the wickedness of this time?”

“When will General Chavez know of this?” Carlotta asked.

“Now. He’ll be in town by six. Congress meets at eight. We will arraign
the palace on this question.”

“God help this unhappy land,” Donna Emilia said.

“God is helping this land,” Don Manuel said. “He gives us this sword
against the Lopez gang; now we shall end them.”

“I am not so sure, Manuel,” Carlotta said. “There is much shrewdness in
the men about Lopez. They would be only too glad to get rid of Don José.
This case may rid the land of Don José; but I do not think that Lopez
will be involved. His hands may even be strengthened.”

Manuel listened to her with much attention.

“Not as ours are strengthened,” he said. “Chavez and Bazan must stir at
this. I have the confession and all the evidence. The Reds suspect
nothing. We shall have a _coup de théâtre_ in only five hours. This
magazine shall explode under their feet.”

“I wonder,” Carlotta said. “General Chavez may think the time
inopportune.”

“Inopportune? When the Reds are declaiming about a White conspiracy?”

“If not inopportune, he may find some other excuse for not acting.”

“He must act upon this.”

“He is a very indolent man.”

“If he will not act, we will find who will. I see three here to start
with; no, four, for I am sure that Mr. Ridden will be with us.”

“Rather, if you’ll have me, sir,” Hi said.

“It will begin your stay here well, to help in the downfall of a
Dictator.”

“Manuel,” Rosa said, “you are not to drag Hi into our party politics.”

“Manuel,” Carlotta said, “I think that you are going beyond the present
issue, which is, to denounce the Murder Club. Lopez has sufficient
readiness, and bigness, to banish, or even to prosecute, his son; and
then face you in a stronger position than ever.”

“I believe that Lopez is mad,” Manuel said. “To-night, when this begins,
I shall declare him to be unfit to govern.”

As he spoke, the major-domo entered with a telegram upon a salver.

“For Don Manuel,” he said.

When Don Manuel had read the telegram, he changed countenance; it was
plain that he had received a blow.

“Is it ill news from Encarnacion?” Donna Emilia asked.

“Is your mother worse, Manuel?” Carlotta asked.

“Yes,” he said, “my beloved mother is dangerously ill at Encarnacion. I
must go at once.”

“There will be no train to San Jacinto till noon to-morrow.”

“No,” he said, “but I can go by the mountain train at four; and ride
from Melchior, it is only sixty-seven miles. If I telegraph for horses,
I can be at home by dusk to-morrow night. That will save five hours.”

“You must go at once, if you are to catch the four train,” Carlotta
said. “I’ll drive you to the station.”

“We will go, then,” Manuel said. “While they bring the chaise, I’ll
order horses; you shall send the telegrams when I am gone.”