Nearly all the province of Encinitas was owned by the last descendant of
the Conquistador, Don Manuel of Encinitas, who lived at his palace in
his town, or in his hacienda below it, with his old mother, whom they
called the Queen Dowager.

Don Manuel was born in 1857. He has been so often described, that it
need only be said of him that he was a very glorious young man, noble in
beauty and in intellect. In the days of this story he was an unmarried
man of not quite thirty. In his youth, before his father died, he had
had his wild time in the city with other young men. He had been a friend
of Don José, Don Lopez’ son, and had practised black magic with Rafael
Hirsch. All this ceased when his father died in 1879. Since then he had
lived at Encarnacion, breeding horses, for the men of his State, who are
among the great horsemen of the world. He took his stature, beauty and
masterful fierce eyes from his mother, the Queen Dowager, who had been a
Peralta from Matoche.

In October, 1886, Don Manuel met Carlotta de Leyva for the first time:
they became betrothed that same month, to the great joy of the Queen
Dowager, who had longed to see her son married.

Miguel de Leyva had a sister Emilia, who married a Piranha of Santa
Barbara city, and lived there, after her husband’s death, in a house too
big for her fortune. She had been much in England with her husband,
either for pleasure or the marketing of copper. She spoke English well.
She caused her daughter Rosa, who had been for some years a convent
friend of her cousin Carlotta, to spend a year in an English household.
Rosa returned to Santa Barbara from England some months before this tale
begins.

Rosa Piranha was then nearly twenty, being a few months older than
Carlotta. She was slight in build and not very strong, but had a mannish
spirit, with courage and dash enough for anything. She had no looks: she
was very short-sighted: she always wore tinted spectacles, even when
indoors. Yet she was amusing, and very attractive: several Englishmen
proposed to her during her stay in England; but she would not marry into
their Church.

She was brown-haired, not dark like most of her country women. In
herself she had that mixture of boyish cheek with feminine grace which
one loves in Viola, in “Twelfth Night.”

On New Year’s Day, 1887, Carlotta and Manuel planned to be married at
Easter, in the cathedral church of Santa Barbara.

On that same New Year’s Day, Don Lopez, the Dictator, in his palace of
Plaza Verde, in Santa Barbara city, gave a lunch to some of the great of
the State, the Red ministers, his son Don José, his creatures Don Livio
and Don Zarzas, some merchants and English speculators and the
Archbishop of Santa Barbara. At this lunch he publicly accused the
prelate of using the power of the Church against the Red party. “I have
my eyes everywhere, like the Almighty,” he said. “Nor can there be two
supreme authorities, here or in heaven.”

To this the Archbishop replied: “There is but one supreme authority:
Lucifer has always found that.”

To this Don Lopez answered: “A greater than Lucifer prepares his wings.”
Having said this, in tones of threat, he rose from the banquet, told
Pluma Verde to call the prelate’s carriage, and invited his other guests
to come within, to watch some dancers.

Roger Weycock, who was present at this lunch, has left an account of it
in his history, _The Last of the Dictators_, where he says that, “It
made him feel that some explosion within the State was about to occur.”
He wrote that evening to the English newspapers that Don Lopez had
received information of a White conspiracy against him: “No names were
mentioned; but all the great White families, as well as the Church, are
said to be involved. It is possible that Don Lopez will be forced to
take extreme measures, to end for ever the menace of White reprisals.
The Whites have never forgiven and never will forgive his part in ‘the
Liberal struggle’ and in the remaking of the land. The Church hates him
for his establishment of secular schools: the great landowners hate him
for his establishment of a commercial class which out-manœuvres them in
Senate and out-votes them in Congress. This must not seem to suggest
that either Church or hidalgos would go so far as to employ an assassin;
but both parties of the White side control large numbers of violent,
ignorant, passionate fanatics, to whom the killing of Lopez would be an
act pleasing to God. What Don Lopez seems to expect is a _soulèvement
générale_ of the Whites against his government at the time of the Easter
celebrations.

“Undoubtedly, with such a ruler as Don Lopez, forewarned is forearmed:
we need not doubt that he has the situation well in hand.”

As it happens, another Englishman, without any bias of party or
interest, saw Don Lopez on this New Year’s Day, and described him thus:
“I watched Don Lopez, while I was with him, very carefully, because of
the strange tales I had heard of his extravagance in building, in
cedarwood, ivory and silver, etc. I had thought that these were lies or
exaggerations, but I am now convinced that they are true. He has built
or begun to build such buildings, but not finished them: he never
finishes: he begins, then begins something grander, and then begins
something new.

“All the time that I was with him some unseen musicians made music upon
some Indian instruments, seemingly of some kind of strings and a rattle.
It was irritating at first, then perplexing, then troublesome and
exciting. I was told that he has this music always in his palace. He
listened to what I had to say with attention, and said that what I
wished should be done. Then, to my surprise, he said, ‘They are seeking
my life. One of them was behind the gateway this afternoon. See there,
you see that man passing beyond the gates? He is a murderer, paid by
those Whites to kill me. My mission here is not accomplished. It is but
begun. What did Jove do in heaven? He forged thunderbolts. He crushed
them. But Jove was all-seeing. I, too, am becoming all-seeing. This
palace may seem stone to your eyes, but it is not stone. It is all eyes,
and this city is all eyes, and I see into their hearts, into their
councils, into the pretence of their God. But a little while longer and
the world will see that a ruler can be godlike, as in Rome.’

“I was made a little uneasy by his words and by the restless, queer
manner in which he uttered them. I had seen him some years before, when
I had been much struck by his air of overbearing masterfulness. That air
was still on him. He looked masterful and overbearing, but there was
something about him now which did not look well. His hair seemed thin
and somewhat staring, his skin seemed dry and his eyes both dry and
bright. Then his mouth, which had always shown an expression between a
snarl and a sneer, seemed permanently caught up at one side, so as to
show the teeth. Possibly it was some malformation, possibly some play of
muscle, which had become habitual or fixed, but it gave the effect of a
state of nerves, never (as I should imagine) quite human, that had
become those of a tiger about to bite. I was suddenly reminded of one of
the late busts of Nero.

“Seeing me looking through the window at the marble tank surrounding the
palace fountain, he said to me, ‘What colour is the water in the
fountain?’

“‘It looks whiteish.’

“‘So has my mercy to the Whites been,’ he said. ‘But let them beware or
I will fill that fountain with their blood and their daughters shall
come to see it play. If they call too much upon God to help them, God
shall reveal Himself. If you have any White friend, tell him that. I am
as patient as God. But tell them that.’

“All the time that he spoke his two great negroes stood behind his
throne, each holding his sword. They were naked to the waist. People
mistook them sometimes for bronzes. That disgusting creature, his son,
Don José, stood at another window, killing flies. He was a
languid-looking youth, sickly and vicious, with a face of exquisite
features, showing neither intellect nor will, nothing but depravity. He
turned to me as his father ceased speaking.

“‘There will be a baptism of blood,’ he said, ‘to the sound of flutes.’

“It was time at that moment for the Dictator to ride abroad. His Indians
entered with his riding costume, a golden head-dress and a tunic of gold
chain-mail all set about with the plumes of the scarlet-crested
dill-birds.

“‘See,’ he said, ‘this is what they force me to wear. I, who am God, the
father of this land, have to wear gold mail, lest I be assassinated. Let
them see to it.’

“When he had put this on, he looked, as he always did, magnificent
beyond description. I understood how it was that his Indians worshipped
him as God. They decked him with a scarlet serape and led him out to his
horse. It was a white stallion, which he was afterwards said to have fed
with human flesh. He and his bodyguard of Indians set out at a gallop.
They always galloped at this time from this fear of assassination, which
had become an obsession to him. I must say that I was glad when he had
gone.

“One of his two negroes, the one with the knife, said, ‘He ride the
White horse; that show the Whites he ride them. He ride with spur, too:
you see.’”

Bill Ridden was an English gentleman who comes a little into this story.
In his youth he spent some years in Santa Barbara, where he made a good
deal of money in the copper boom at Matoche. He was a very good friend
to the Piranhas at this time (and later in the copper crisis). He was a
man of strong affections; he kept in touch with his friends in Santa
Barbara long after he had returned to England and settled down. He
married in 1857. His wife was Sarah Ocle, a loud, fresh-coloured, robust
mare of a woman, by whom, as he put it, he “sired some colts and
fillies, as well as a darned pup I might have drowned.” This “pup” was
his youngest son, Highworth Foliat Ridden, born in 1869, who was not
quite eighteen when this tale begins. It was at Bill Ridden’s house that
Rosa Piranha spent her year in England.

This house was the Foliats, in Berkshire, where Bill’s mother’s people,
the Foliats, had lived. It was a small, red-brick Queen Anne house, with
a racing stable at the back and the Downs behind the racing stable. Here
Bill bred steeplechasers and rode much to hounds. Bill was an ugly
devil, foul-mouthed and rude, something between a publican and a
horse-coper in appearance, yet strangely gentle with women and horses.
He had a Judge Jeffreys manner on the bench of magistrates. He loved his
daughter Bell and hated his youngest son. “If he had been a pup,” he
used to say, “I could have drowned him; if he had been a trout, I could
have put him back; but being this, by God, there is nothing that I can
do, short of pitching him in at the deep end, to see if he’s got guts
enough not to sink.”

His wife, Sarah Ridden, was fond of this son, but wished that he would
be like others boys, “not always messing about with cog-wheels.” Her
children had gone from her into the world, with the exception of her
daughter Bell, a year older than the boy. She found life easier with the
boy out of the house, “not putting my old man’s back up.” Quiet life,
the Liverpool Spring Meeting and asparagus were the things she loved
best; but she was a fine rider and understood horses.

Bell Ridden, the daughter, was a lovely, shy girl, worshipped by her
father and mother. As she lived at home, she helped her father in the
stable: she was clever with horses; the stable boys loved her: she got
more out of them than Bill could. It was her instinct that sent the
Lilybud to Mandarin, by which Bill got Chinese White, the horse which
won him his glory.

The five older children were scattered: Polly and Sally married, Harold
in a line regiment, Chilcote and Rowton in the city, in copper.

This brings us to the youngest son, Highworth Foliat Ridden, the Hi of
these pages, the lad who had not yet found what he could do. He was of
the middling height and build, with brown hair, and a pleasant, freckled
face, somewhat puckered at the eyes from his habit of not wearing a hat.
His eyes were grey-blue, under eyebrows darker than one would expect
from the eyes: his nose was a small pug nose, neatly made and set. His
ears were well made and placed. His mouth was wide, pleasant,
thin-lipped and firm. He was a nice-looking lad, who would have done
well enough under other parents, or with none.

Being the last of the seven, he came at a time when both his parents had
had enough of children, but wanted, as they said, “a filly to finish up
with.” As Hi turned out to be a colt, or as Bill put it, “another of
these buck pups to have about,” he was a disappointment to them from the
first.

He went to the school where the other Riddens had been, he got his
second eleven colours in his last summer term; but learned nothing; he
was “always messing about with cog-wheels.”

In the Christmas holidays Bill called him into his “study,” where he
kept two hunting horns, six long hunting-pictures by Henry Alken, seven
foxes’ masks (one of them almost white, killed in the winter of the
great frost), eleven crops on a rack, three small oil portraits of
Moonbird, Sirocco and Peter, much tobacco of all sorts, and many bottles
of liqueur, made by himself.

“Now, Highworth,” he said, “you’ve come to an age now when you’ve got to
decide what to do. You’ve had a first-rate education; at least, if you
haven’t, it’s your own fault, I know it’s cost enough. Now what are you
going to be? What do you want to do?”

“Well, sir, as you know, I’ve always wanted to be an engineer.”

“I’ve already gone into that, boy. I thought you knew my mind on that
point once for all. But it’s the kind of answer I expected from this
last report of yours. You waste your time at an expensive public school
messing with toy engines with that young maniac you persuaded us to
invite here, and then say you want to be an engineer. A nice thing it
would be for your mother and sister to see you a . . . mechanic doing
the drains with a spanner. By God, boy, you’ve got a fine sense of
pride, I don’t think.”

Hi said that engineering was a fine profession and that lots of people
went in for it.

“What do you know about its being a fine profession?”

“Because it gives men all sorts of power, sir.”

“Power be damned, boy. Power to stink of paraffin whenever they go out
to dinner; though that must be seldom, even now, I’m glad to think.”

“Sir James Russel was a fine man, sir; and so was William Horrocks, who
made the Gartishan Dam.”

“Sir James Russel may have been God Almighty, for all I know or care; I
never heard of him; but William Horrocks I do know, or at least know of,
for his uncle was old John Horrocks, the mealman down at Kill Hill, and
a dirtier, old, snuffy scoundrel I never saw out of an almshouse.”

“I don’t know what his uncle was, sir.”

“No, boy, but if you will let me say so, the point is, that I do.”

“Yes, sir, but I am talking of William Horrocks.”

“I think I understand as much. I am merely pointing out to you, in the
teeth of a great deal of interruption, that your hero was a man whom no
one here would touch with a barge-pole or have inside his house.”

“Sir, a man ought not to be judged by what his uncle is, but by what he
is in himself.”

“A man is judged by what his uncle is. In this country, thank God,
having respectable relations counts for a good deal, and so it should.
You’re a Ridden and a Foliat, and I’m not going to have you messing an
honoured name with wheel-grease because you’ve read some damned
subversive rag which you’ve neither the sense to drop nor the wit to
judge. There are some things which a man can do and keep his
self-respect and be asked out to dinner, but going round with a spanner
isn’t one of them.”

“I don’t ask to go round with a spanner, sir, nor to be asked out to
dinner.”

“What do you ask, then?”

“I would like to learn engineering, sir, because I’ve always enjoyed
engines and the application of power, and that sort of thing.”

“What do you call that but going round with a spanner? And how do you
propose to learn engineering?”

“I hoped, sir, that you would let me go to an engineering works.”

“Engineering works be damned.”

“I don’t see it, sir. It’s the thing I should do best.”

“Well, I do see it, sir, and it’s the thing I won’t have.”

“But why not, sir? I should work at it. I shouldn’t disgrace you.”

“Your notions of disgrace aren’t mine. Your notions of disgrace are the
sort of damned sentiment that will wreck this country and all that’s in
it.”

“I don’t see why, sir. I don’t want to argue with you, sir; but it is
important to me: what I am to do all my life.”

“It is equally important to me that my son should not make a mistaken
choice.”

“But what a man most wants to do, sir, can’t be a mistaken choice.”

“You’re not a man; but a damned young ass. That being so, and it is so,
it’s for me to decide. I’ve got to supply the money whatever you do; I
suppose you won’t deny that.”

“I was wondering, sir, whether you would advance to me Aunt Melloney’s
money, that I’m to have when I’m of age, and let me pay for myself.”

“Pay what for yourself?”

“The fees or premiums, sir, for going through the shops.”

“So that’s what the fellow meant, was it? Now I know. ‘The shops,’ he
said. There was a drunken engineer at Newmarket, who said, ‘Let the
gentleman keep clear of the shops.’ He was drunk when he said it; but
that’s what he meant; now I know; and he showed a fine sense of the
situation.”

“Would you advance me the money, sir?”

“I’ll do nothing of the sort. These engineers and fellows are a gang I
will not tolerate. They defile God’s country. They’ve already spoiled
the hunting, and the racing’s following as fast as it can go. If you’d
been a boy with any guts, instead of clockwork, you’d have been glad, I
should have thought, to have been at home here, and borne a hand in the
stable. Breeding is about the last thing this poor country’s got in
these damned days. We’ve still got horses, thank God. We don’t depend on
a traction-engine gang, doing a tenth of the work for double the money.
Why don’t you take off your coat and come into the stable? It’s a needed
job; a pleasant job; and a gentleman’s job, what’s more. What’s wrong
with that?”

“Nothing, sir; but I’m not very good at horses. Besides, you’ve got Bell
in the stables. I should only be in the way.”

“Ashamed of working with your sister, are you?”

“No, sir; but Bell wouldn’t want me there, and you’d always be swearing
at me.”

“Damme,” Bill said, “there are things in you boys that would make any
father swear. You go to a prep. school for three years, then to a public
school for five years, then you ask to be kept for another seven while
you learn a profession, and by God, when you’ve learnt it, you can’t
make a living at it. I’ve been talking to your mother about this, as
well as to Rosa Piranha before she sailed. You’ll not go back to school,
that I’m resolved on, after this last report. You’ll stay here a week or
two to get some clothes, and then you’ll do what I did. You’ll go to
Santa Barbara and see if you can keep your head above water by your own
hands. If you can, well and good. You will have letters to people; a lot
better people than I ever had; and you will have time given you to look
about you. You ought to be able to make good; I don’t say in copper,
that is over, but in a new land there are new things and new
opportunities. There are always sugar, tobacco and ranching; there
should be timber, cocoa, piacaba, countless things. As I said, you ought
to be able to make good. If you can’t, it will be your own lookout.
You’ve got to paddle your own canoe, like any other youngest son. Now
I’m not going to have any argument about the superior beauties of
cog-wheels. I’ve written to people and written about your ticket. Since
you won’t work in the stable here and have no choice of your own, except
a damned dirty falallery which I won’t have, you’ll go to Santa Barbara.
You may count yourself more than lucky to have the chance. Very few
youngest sons ever get into the sun at all, but stink in a rotten town,
by God, where even the horses puke at the air they breathe.

“You turn up your nose, do you? I wish I was going to Santa Barbara to
have my time again. You can turn up your nose as much as you like, but
that’s what you’ll do, so make up your mind to it. When you’ve seen the
place you’ll thank me for having sent you there. When you’ve been there
a few days you’ll thank your stars for your luck.”

Hi did not answer his father, knowing that thumbs were down. His heart
sank at the thought of the foreign country, yet leaped again at the
thought of liberty from school and life beginning. He had still one
little ray of hope, which his mother extinguished.

“Your father’s got his back up,” she said. “Between you and me, Hi, he
has had a bad year. Newmarket was nearly a finisher. So be a good old
sport and go; there’s a dear. There’s far more scope there than here;
everybody says so. Besides, your Aunt Melloney’s money went into
Hicks’s. I don’t know that you could get it out, even if your father
agreed.”