Carlotta was put to death at about the moment of Hi’s arrest by the
Pituba officer, before he was taken to Ribote.

    On the fate of Don Manuel and his army, or what happened on the
    day of the battle.

When Hi saw the White army near Anselmo, it was moving from its bivouac
towards Santa Barbara, expecting to fight that morning. It was delayed
in its march by Pituba skirmishers, so that it did not come into
position above Santa Clara until after three in the afternoon.

Don Manuel had expected that a part of the Federal army, the San Jacinto
Horse, and the battalion of Independents, would declare for him, and
either join him or help him. Their officers were known to be Whites and
their men were hostile to Lopez. Unfortunately, Colonel Velarte, of the
Horse, who was a friend of Hermengildo de Bazan, the White leader,
disliked Don Manuel and refused to help him. The Colonel of the
Independents felt that the Whites would be ruined if he did not help Don
Manuel, but would not help unless he were given the command. While
affairs were in this state, the day before the battle, Don Livio
disarmed both these battalions and put their officers under arrest, so
that the Whites were not helped by any Federal troops.

When the battle began, Don Manuel had with him between six and seven
hundred horsemen, armed in various ways, undisciplined, without
artillery, and almost without ammunition. The Federal troops opposed to
him numbered about four thousand, including the Meruel and Pituba
regiments of horse, three battalions of Eastern foot and two batteries
of horse artillery.

The battle proper began when Don Manuel’s men came on to the little
ridge above Santa Clara church. At that point they came under shell-fire
from the batteries, which had been registered upon the ground during the
morning. As Don Manuel saw that his only chance was to charge the guns,
he charged. His men got into trip wire laid before the guns, and were
shot down there by the foot soldiers or routed by the lancers. Some
fifty or sixty of the Encinitas men followed Don Manuel to the right of
the field, broke through a squad of Meruel horse, made a dash for the
city, entered the southern gate, and summoned the fortress to surrender.

Here, through the wit of Don Livio, they were ambushed and driven on to
the water-front, where they fought till they were lost. The last of them
made a stand about the green boat or lighter which Hi had seen on the
morning of his setting out with Rosa. When their last cartridges were
gone, they took to the water and were killed in the bay.

Don Manuel, because he took to the water after the others, when the
light was worse, contrived to reach the English barque _Venturer_, whose
Captain (Gary) received him and brought him to safety. Some five weeks
after the battle, he landed in the United States.

Of his army, it is thought that about one-half escaped alive from the
battle, and that of these perhaps a third were killed in the pursuit or
in the proscriptions which followed. The Federal loss is not known, as
the returns were falsified. It is thought that the Reds lost many men in
the skirmishing, both before and after the battle.

The battlefield, which was then mainly race ground and market gardens,
is now covered by the suburb of Santa Clara. It is a couple of miles
from Medinas, on the northern road from the city; at a little distance
the ridge (now covered with houses) which was the White position, may
still be seen.

    On the fate of Donna Emilia and her daughter Rosa.

Donna Emilia died in misery shortly after the outbreak of the troubles
(in May, 1887). Her daughter, Rosa Piranha, though proscribed in the
September massacre, was saved from death by the devotion of her old
nurse. The house which Hi saw burning, as he walked to the Mole, was not
the Piranhas’ home; that was spared though sacked. Rosa returned to it
when the troubles were over.

In May, 1888, she entered a community of enclosed nuns, to whom she made
over all her earthly possessions. In this sisterhood she has lived ever
since.

    On the fate of Hi, after he went on board the _Solita_.

As the aliens in the ships were not allowed to land again in Santa
Barbara during the troubles, Hi, with his fellow refugees, went in the
_Solita_ to New York, where he landed.

As his parents felt that he had better stay there, he remained in the
United States, where he underwent the adventures and hardships usual to
youth. After some months there, it happened, that he met Don Manuel.

As he felt that his life was linked to Don Manuel by ties not easily
broken, he joined the band of White refugees sworn to destroy Don Lopez
and his faction. With these outcasts he wandered and suffered for some
months, till that campaign began which led to the killing of Lopez and
the establishment of Don Manuel as Dictator in his stead.

For some years after this, Hi remained in the Western provinces, in Don
Manuel’s employment, at work upon the problem dear to him, of perfecting
steamboats for river traffic of different kinds. In 1891, when Don
Manuel began his great scheme of controlling the San Jacinto River, some
of his ideas were put in practice. For the next seven years, he was
busily employed on the San Jacinto, in partial or complete charge of the
boat service by which the workers on the dam were supplied. The
following letter from him, written in early May, 1898, to his mother in
England, will fill in some of the blanks in this history:

“On the 15th we had our great day with the opening of the dam. His
Excellency, with his staff and a lot of senators and Congressmen, came
to the pier at Curucucu, where they took our boats for the last ten
miles up to the dam. After the formal opening, there was a banquet, at
which H. E. made a very nice speech. He said he did not think the work
would ever have been done but for my boats, which perhaps was partly
true.

“About a week after the opening they finished the last stretch of the
railway so that now the waters are linked with both coasts and my seven
years’ job is at an end.

“As I had nothing to do, I was one of the first to take the train to the
east through the forest; and I took the opportunity to go over the
scenes of my old adventures. I got Dick Binge and Tommy to come with me.
I started by going to San Marco, where the marriage party was so kind to
me. I found Uncle Philip still living, in the same farm. His niece had
married Hernando, the man who dispensed the cordials in the waggon. They
were living at a farm near by and doing well. I had promised them when I
parted from them to return the clothes they gave me. I couldn’t quite do
this, but I was able to get them a couple of pedigree cows from His
Excellency, which I hope will thrive up there on the hill.

“After seeing them, we went with a guide two days into the forest to the
temple where the cousin of the Hundred Yards Blue nearly plugged me. The
place has long since been opened up and explored. From some of the
Indians thereabouts I learned of the end of Letcombe-Bassett, if that
were his name. It seems that a few days after I escaped, he worked into
the temple by himself and made a certain number of finds. A big stone
fell across his legs and pinned him there. He called to his Indians to
lift the stone, but the Indians wouldn’t, because they hadn’t liked his
ways, so he stayed pinned there for three days and nights, till he died
of thirst. So Dudley Wigmore was avenged. We had a look for Dudley
Wigmore’s bones, but the jungle had taken charge of them. I learned
later that one or two of his things and some of the treasure from the
temple were recovered and sent to his old mother at Shepton Mallet. This
was done by one of Wigmore’s French friends, years ago, during the
troubles, soon after I was there. The rest of the things found in the
temple are in the museum at Santa Barbara.

“From this point, as so much of the forest had been cleared and a lot of
the bog drained, it was easy to make the next stage to the ranch, where
the corpse looked through the window. Here I learned what had happened;
it had long been a puzzle to me.

“The troop of Pitubas who had burned the Ribote house made one or two
forays into the Gaspar country, to burn the houses of other prominent
Whites. Word came that afternoon that they were coming to burn this
particular ranch. That old ruffian, Don Pablo, who would not let me go
to Anselmo, ordered the people to vacate the ranch, and to join his
body, which (he said) would then attack the Pitubas. They hurried the
women away to safety; then, as they rode out to join Don Pablo, someone
in a panic fired a shot, and everybody began to blaze away at nothing.
These were the shots which I heard.

“A young Englishman employed in the ranch stayed there after the others
lest a telephone call should come through with news of Don Manuel. While
he waited, he saw the Pituba spy and shot him through the window; being
then thoroughly scared, he took horse and galloped away. I heard him go.

“The telephone call came through while I was there, as I am not likely
to forget.

“The people who challenged me and shot my horse, as I left the place,
were the Pitubas, who burned the ranch to the ground that night. I found
it rebuilt and thriving. That old ruffian, Don Pablo, owns it: he is a
Senator and a grandissimo: I saw him there. He looks liker a portrait of
a beadle than ever: a beadle or a town-bull.

“From this point we rode through the forest to the place where I went
astray in the rain; and thence up the pass to the crater; and so, by
degrees, to the Ribotes’ ranch. The old man and wife were still alive.
The old man was failing and the old woman had had so many troubles that
she did not care to see me, but I paid for my horse, I am glad to say,
at last, and heard their news. The daughter had become an enclosed nun
and the son, Anton, had been killed in the anti-clerical rebellion five
years ago. I was grieved indeed not to see those two again. The house
had been divided against itself, like so many during the troubles. From
there, I rode on to the little town where I had been jailed. It has
become a very prosperous place since I was there. They have built a new
town hall and a new jail. They have also changed its name from Ribote to
Tres de Mayo. Some don of state had built a lovely palace on the site of
the Ribote mansion, which was burned while I was there.

“From here we rode on and camped in the clump where the officer made me
a prisoner. Of all the places which I visited, this was the only one
which did not seem to have changed. In the morning, we rode on and came
to the falls down which I had been swept when I escaped from Brother
Bright Tooth and his friend. As there was very little water in the river
it did not look the same, but I could see the place with the overhanging
bank where I came ashore. Just at the place where I took the water there
is now a railway bridge; the track by which I rode on Bright Tooth’s
horse has now the railway beside it. The hamlet where Bright Tooth and
his mother lived has changed beyond all recognition into a thriving
market town, but I found the German. He had become very stout and
enormously prosperous. He remembered me quite well and told me all about
Bright Tooth and his mother. The mother, he said, went into Santa
Barbara during the troubles and was ended when the troubles were ended.
Bright Tooth and a friend of his, I hope the friend who was with him
when they tried to nobble me, were garrotted under His Excellency for
murdering an old woman at Medinas.

“From this point, it was only a short stage to Carpinche, which is now a
port for big forest timber. There were ships of up to a thousand tons in
the harbour there. I watched them heaving the great red-hearts and
green-hearts in through the holes in their bows. Not that the forests
are being skinned. They are being planted as well as being cut.

“We took boat here—not a sailing boat, for those have passed away and
market produce goes now to the city by train. We went in one of the
ferries which ply every hour from Carpinche to Santa Barbara, calling at
La Boca. I landed at La Boca to try to find word of Giordano. He had
gone back to Italy, they told me, some years ago and was living there
near Florence; very rich, they said. Pedro Ruiz was still marketing and
gardening. I saw him at last in the flesh and bought some plants from
him, which I hope I shall make grow for the sake of old times. The
padron of my boat and Chigo had both gone back to Italy: few Italians
stay here more than seven years.

“From there I came on to the Farola, where I had the long wait that
anxious morning. As I landed in the late afternoon, I was the only
person there, except a few anglers fishing for snappers. I could see
what used to be the Piranhas’ house, so leaving the pier, I walked up to
it. It is now the house of enclosed nuns in which Rosa lives. They are
contemplatives, so there was no seeing Rosa: none of us will ever see
her again, I suppose. I am too active to take to the monkish way of life
myself; but I have seen monks and nuns out here, from time to time, who
have made me see something of what they see. When you once see the
beauty of holiness, no other beauty seems living. Rosa is happy. I went
to the house just when they were singing their service, in that chapel
which used to be the Piranhas’ chapel, where Donna Emilia and her
husband are buried. I felt very queer, to think that Rosa was singing
there and I so near her, listening: and suddenly I knew that she knew
that I was listening, and was sending me a message of great happiness.

“In the city, I learned of some of the rest of these people. Don
Inocencio was killed in the troubles: murdered the day after Don Manuel
lost the battle, like so many other Whites. Allan Winter is still out at
Quezon: Weycock is in the Shipping Co. I saw him at the Club: he is a
man I cannot stick. Don José is one of his clients, they say: he would
be.

“I asked Colonel Peñedo at the War Office if he could find out for me
about the Pituba officer who would not let me land and afterwards jailed
me. He was a Captain Avellano, it seems; a well-known Red and as brave
as they are made. Don Livio, that mongrel scoundrel, was responsible for
sending him to Ribote to burn the Ribote house. It seems that he had no
written orders to stop the boats at La Boca: in doing that he was
probably just being cussed. He was a gallant man in his way: he was
killed fighting for Lopez a year later, “fighting like a wild tiger cat,
one against twenty,” so Peñedo said. The Pituba officers were usually
pretty tough: so I hope he may rest in peace.

“Of some of the other criminals and waifs, upon whose tracks mine
impinged, I could learn nothing. Anna the were-wolf got herself shot in
the troubles by wanting to be too revolutionary: the Reds did not kill
the Whites so that Anna and her friends might rule.

“I haven’t mentioned Ezekiel Rust, because I have so often written to
you about him. He and his wife Isabella are still out at Encarnacion; he
runs the haras there, in very good style; she seems fond of him: both
are well. He always wants to come back to England, to see Tencombe
again, but I beg him not to think of it. Many there would recognise him,
and although the evidence against him cannot now be strong, he would be
certain to incriminate himself, and it would be too pitiful if the poor
old chap should get himself hanged or (more probably) shut up as a
criminal lunatic. Where he is now, he is a valuable man. Where _he_ is
now, Keeper Jackson is, I hope, a valuable ghost. Why not let it rest at
that?

“I asked about that picture-dealer on the water-front. It seems that he
got a lot of things from the de Leyva collection, chiefly the bronzes.
Then Don José tried to get them out of him, and as he wouldn’t sell
them, Don José took them, with all his other belongings, and had the man
deported. I suppose this is Don J’s nearest approach to a virtuous act.
Of course, this was years ago, only a few days after the troubles began.

“H. E. had me out to dine at the palace, to ask me about another job,
opening up the Burnt Lands by canals, and would I design the boats? It
seems tame, after the San Jacinto: like falling off a log; but I want to
be in everything that H. E. is in. He thinks that the B. L. can be
planted in patches, if there are catchments. He is the most hopeful soul
I know.

“By the way, in the palace, I found the Aztec, the Ribote brother. He is
a sort of Secretary for Clerical Affairs, rather a big gun. I did not
remind him of our meeting.

“Well, this is a long letter: I must stop.

“Words cannot describe the changes in the city since the bad old ’87
days: no town can have changed more in the time. My love to Bell and
Father. I hope to be back in June, for a couple of months: so don’t fill
the house up.”

    A note added by Highworth Ridden:

“The above was written by me to my mother soon after the completion of
the dam, when I revisited Santa Barbara for the first time since the
troubles. I left the pier on that morning of the troubles thinking to be
back in ten days: I did not return save for that time as a prisoner for
more than eleven years.

“What I did not and could not write to my mother, I write now, after
another eleven years. It is about Carlotta. It is difficult to set down
what she was to me. ‘Calf-love,’ I suppose most people would say. Well,
there is a generosity in calf-love that gives it a grace: not that mine
had any grace. I saw her on only one day twenty-two years ago: I have
thought of her every day since; not as a lover of course (for years
past), but as a spirit apart, unlike anyone else that ever was. You who
never saw her cannot understand this. She was the most exquisite thing:
in life marvellous, in the unspeakable end, heroic: and always so
beautiful, so gracious. All who knew her felt this: she had cruel
enemies, the mad, the diseased, the godless, the savage and the greedy
hated her.

“I went to the chapel of Carlotta, which H. E. built. Her tomb, with her
recumbent figure, is there: it is very beautiful. Her sculptured head on
the stairs leading to the Plaza is liker her. Gamarro’s painting of her
is not like. Bedwyn’s pencil sketch is like. But she was like the light,
no one could have painted her.

“I tried to do something for her once, and though I failed, I am prouder
of that than of anything else that I have ever done. Whatever she was,
she made men know that gleams come into this world from a world beyond,
which is better than this.

                                                             “H. F. R.”

“When I set out from the hotel on that morning of the troubles, I took
with me a scrap of the hermosita which she had broken for me. This being
in my pocket-book, was stolen from me at Ribote by the Englishman who
got me out of jail. The rest of the spray, being in my trunk at the
hotel, was, as I supposed, lost, during the troubles, with all my kit.

“But in 1899, being at the Club in Santa Barbara, I met the then
proprietor of the hotel, who said, that he had recently found some
trunks and bags in a disused cellar: that these had evidently been put
away during the troubles and never claimed since, and were now to be
sold. I went to see them, and among them found one of my tin trunks, in
which were some ruined clothes. With the clothes, in some hotel
blotting-paper, I found the hermosita spray which Carlotta had given to
me, and the envelope, addressed by her to Donna Emilia, which I had
picked up and kept. So that I have what few have, one of the last gifts
and one of the last writings of a lovely soul.

“That is all that one can say of her, that she was a lovely soul. I have
met no one in the least like her. I can but thank God for her, knowing
that she came from God.

                                                             “H. F. R.”

    A note upon Carlotta, by Arturo Grau, author of “Memoirs of
    Those Times.”

“I felt when I met her, what I have felt ever since, that in her mortal
body an angel walked, who needed but a small instrument though a perfect
one.

“Those who met her, felt despair at their unworthiness beside so much
perfection; yet felt exaltation at the thought that such perfection
could be in this world. I can truly say, with so many others, that she
altered my life for me.”

    Another note upon Carlotta, by Roberto Mandariaga.

“None can describe her, nor would one understand, if she were described.
She was like a light sent from God.”

    Another note upon Carlotta, by Roger Weycock.

“She was a little, sprightly thing with a lot of colour. She was very
much of a lady by birth, being a de Leyva; but for this she might have
passed for bold. She seemed to me to be very fond of her own opinion,
which was not always wise. She had been the spoiled darling all her
life; old de Leyva’s pet; the Chavez group worshipped her. Someone had
told her, in her youth, that she was like a little fairy. She seemed to
me to be always acting the fairy. I do not of course pretend to justify
her murder, which must ever remain a blot upon an unconstitutional but,
on the whole, rather great administration. At the same time I, who saw
her, can testify that she was not the angel from Paradise which some,
who never saw her, would have us believe. She was a pert young woman,
accustomed to her own way, who had the tragical fate to run counter to a
much stronger way than her own. The character of Carlotta de Leyva, as
worshipped (this is scarcely too strong a word) at present at Santa
Barbara, had no original in the young woman whom I met; it is an
invention of the poets (of the sentimental-idealistic school, of whom
Tomás de Medellin is the chief exponent), backed by an able but quite
unscrupulous propagandist press, whose interest it is to blacken Don
Lopez by every means in its power.”

    Another note upon Carlotta, by Guillermo de Medellin, father of
    the poet.

“I saw her almost daily for many years. As a traveller in both
hemispheres, I have met many thousands of people; some of them
distinguished, a few great, none like her. I have met some with more
compelling power; that, after all, was not what she had; she had
blessing power, as though she came from Heaven.

“She was one whom many loved; surely all to their great good. No hatred
or other evil could exist in a mind full of her memory.

“Once, when she was a little girl, five or six years old, I asked her
what she would do when she grew up. She said that she would build
everybody a palace. ‘What,’ I said, ‘with your little hands?’ ‘No,’ she
said, ‘my lover will build it for me.’ This I have so often, often
thought of.”