After some hours, by crouching knee to chin, covered by his saddle, a
kind of warmth crept over Hi, so that he slept an uneasy sleep, full of
cramps and nightmares.

Uneasy as it was, it was deep. Eternity seemed to go over him like a
sea. Down at the bottom of its pit, he became conscious that the
universe was vast, and that in the depth of it, one little ache, which
went from his back into his stomach, from the cold, was himself. All
kinds of vast things watched this ache with indifference; but the ache
was all-important to himself. It kept urging him to rise. “That is the
point,” he muttered, “I’ve got to rise. I’ve got to rise.”

Something from the heart of things was calling him to rise. With an
effort he shook himself out of the cramps and nightmares into the
coolness and stillness of reality. He thrust aside the saddle and sat
up, aching. There were the stars overhead, in all those odds and ends of
constellations of the southern heaven which have no easy guides for the
wanderer like King Charles’s Wain. The grass was all pale about him, the
trees were all black, tree-tops and grass-tops seemed to waver a little:
something near the water pan made a ticking noise, as though some mouse
were snouting there under fallen twigs.

From all these things, he came suddenly to focus on the thing which
mattered. His horse was staring intently, rigidly and silently at
something which Hi could not see. This was why he had been called upon
to rise. The sleeping partner in his horse had called him up to face the
enemy. A wave of fear passed from the horse into the master; Hi sat up
to stare as the horse stared; he rose to his knees and stared.

He could see nothing but the film of the grass against the black of the
forest, yet somewhere in that space was something at which the horse was
staring with all his nature. In that dimness and indistinctness before
the darkness something was abroad, not stirring, but staring at them.
What was it? Was it a snake waiting to strike, or a puma, or a ghost out
of the grave? There was nothing to show, nothing to see; but both knew
that there was something, deadly unspeakable. Hi felt the hair rise on
his brow: he heard the sweat drip from himself and his horse.

How long this lasted he never knew, but at last, from that
indistinctness in front, there came the faintest of sounds, that marked
the ending of the tension. Something dark seemed on the instant to merge
back into the darkness behind it. There was no noise of step or tread,
no motion in the grass, nothing that one could swear to seeing, only the
suggestion of a scent, like the ghost of the flavour of musk, and then
the knowledge that the thing was no longer there. He believed that his
horse sighed with relief, as he himself did.

He could see nothing, but the horse saw. Hi saw the horse’s eyes follow
the thing slowly round. What thing was it that could move so slowly?
What thing of precaution was moving, pausing and deliberating? When it
deliberated, its will hardened against them, the horse knew it, and Hi
knew it from the horse. The fear came again, that the thing might
strike, had almost made up its mind to strike: it had some kind of a
mind.

Yet again the tension snapped suddenly, with a sigh of relief from horse
and man: the evil seemed to withdraw, so that the horse felt free to
change his position. Then the night, which for some minutes had seemed
to hold her breath, began again to speak with her myriad voices out of
the darkness of her cruelty. The whisper and the droning of the forest
sharpened into the rustlings of snakes, the wails of victims, the cry of
the bats after the moths, and the moan of the million insects seeking
blood.

For some two hours Hi stayed by his horse, waiting and watching, till at
last he felt free to lie down to rest. The insects took toll of him, but
he contrived some shelter, and being young, as well as weary, he slept
again. He may perhaps have slept for as much as an hour.

He was wakened suddenly by that inner messenger who told him that the
danger, whatever it was, had returned. He heard the horse wheel round
with a little cry to face in a new direction. Hi faced it, but again
could see nothing but a blackness of trees, now like steel at the tops
from the false dawn. Hi stood beside the horse, with an arm on his neck,
staring. There was tenseness and silence, with fear passing from beast
to man and back again. What was there, Hi could not see, but the horse
saw. All that Hi thought that he could distinguish was a blotch of
blackness which wavered against the blackness that was steadfast. It
seemed to him to be some snake swollen to the size of an upright at
Stonehenge. When the waiting became unbearable he challenged.

“I see you,” he said. “What do you want?”

There came no answer, nor any sound from the thing; the only result of
the challenge seemed to be that the tenseness became more tense and the
silence more still. Staring forward more intently, Hi felt that the
blotch of blackness was not there, but that something was there, but
what thing? Ah, what thing could it be that was slow, silent as the
coming of a fever, and deadlier than pestilence? It was there making up
its mind for half an hour.

Then, as before, in one instant it was not: it was gone. Hi looked up at
the heaven suddenly, to find that the steel of the tree-tops was now
burnished with colour. Some birds in those tree-tops right over where
the danger had been now woke all together with ejaculations and the
clapping of wings, which spread from tree to tree, till all the forest
was awake. High, shrill cacklings and screamings, full of good spirits
and energy rang aloud all over the wood. With a clattering of the quills
of wing-feathers, some big birds shook themselves loose from sleep.
After a time, flocks of little birds passed overhead with thin, sweet
cries. The false dawn, which had made the sky warm with colour, died
away into dimness; then, almost at once, the darkness thinned and
dispersed: colour surged into mid-heaven in flames of scarlet, which
made the tree-tops glow. Within a few minutes it was dawn. Hi was cold,
miserable, swollen and itching from bites, but safe from the powers of
darkness; the night was gone; he had never understood what night was,
now he knew.

In the glow of the warmth with all things so full of colour he looked at
the place where the danger had threatened. The danger had now gone, the
horse was eating at peace. There was no trace nor track that Hi could
read, nor any mark that he could find, that might not have been made by
himself or the horse. Yet about the places where the danger had been a
flavour or sickliness of musk still lingered, so faintly that it could
hardly be noted. “It is not musk, either,” Hi said to himself. “It has a
sort of edge to it. It is the smell of some stuff that kills, it has to
do with death. This is a deadly place; we’ll be gone from it.”

Having groomed and fed his horse and himself, he set out from that
clearing. “I have got my bearings now,” he said. “I am facing north,
probably straight towards Anselmo. Any going to the right will bring me
out towards La Boca; any going to the left will put me too far to the
west. As I am headed now, I ought to be clear of the forest by noon. I
don’t know what Rosa will think of me, losing all this time, but I’ll
get there somehow, so that she shan’t be too much ashamed of me.”

He had not ridden for two minutes before he felt a change in his horse;
all the gallantry was gone from his going, there was no spark nor stir
passing from horse to rider. “Poor old boy,” he thought, “he has been
awake all night, from that thing in the clearing, he is feeling a bit
tucked up.” He went gently through the forest for rather more than an
hour. It was good going, more open than it had been the day before, with
patches of savannah where the trend of the shadows gave him his
directions. He was thankful for these savannahs, because of their warmth
and colour, which restored him like draughts of wine. But his horse went
on like a log beneath him, with no life nor spirit, and his own heart
was troubled enough at all the delays. “At least, I am started now,” he
thought.

He came to a green expanse, broken up with pools of water, where reeds
of delicate stems, topped by pale blue tufts of flowers, attracted
multitudes of golden-throats, which poised at each tuft and glittered as
they fluttered. The patch was perhaps three hundred yards across and of
an intense glittering greenness. “Soft going,” Hi muttered; “this is
bog.”

The horse knew something about earth of that greenness. He would have
none of it. Hi dismounted to look at it; it looked like bottomless bog
leading to deep water, with bog on the further side. In the midst of the
green expanse there was a sort of bubbling wriggle of small snakes.
Sometimes a red turtle crawled out of a pool, wallowed along the mud and
sank into another. “Here’s a lively place,” Hi thought. “I’ll have to
get round it. I’ll work round here to the right and go round the end of
it.”

He set off in good spirits, but after two miles or more of exploration
he found no end of it. Instead of an end, the bog seemed to have a
growth in that direction into a lake or pool edged with bottomless mud.
Something in the water, whether tincture or germ, had killed the trees
which it had touched. Three or four hundred dead trees stood in a pool
the colour of stagnant blood, each tree was leafless and barkless: they
stood as bones, silent save for the beetles clicking on them. “Here’s a
nice place,” Hi thought. “It would be first rate as a shrubbery to a
morgue.”

There was no sign of any way across or round that bog. The blood-pool
stretched on to what looked like an oil-pool, black and rancid, with
prismatic gleams oozing outwards from it. Beyond this, there was swamp,
with enormous plants with branches like water-lily roots, or like knots
of snakes intertwisted, rising from the pools. The bark of these
twigless branches had been gashed, perhaps in some act of growth, so
that it hung in weepers, showing the red or yellow flesh beneath;
“beggars with sores,” Hi called them.

“Since I can’t get round here,” he said, “I must go back and try the
other end.” The mosquitoes were eating him alive here, so that when he
clapped his neck suddenly his hand was covered with blood. As he had
heard that oil will drive away mosquitoes, he smeared his hands, face
and neck with the skimmings of one of the pools; this relieved him for a
time.

At the other end, he found a tongue of dry land which seemed to thrust
right across the bog. “Here is a way,” he thought, “this will take me
over.” He set out upon it with good hope.

After a mile of open going, the reeds closed in on both sides of him, so
that he rode in a narrow space between ranks of stems, grey-green and
golden, topped by plumes of blue. The horse needed continual urging
forward, until he came to a patch of a plant like rest-harrow, which
attracted him; he seemed eager to crop it.

“Well, if it’s going to do you good, old boy,” Hi said, “you’d better
eat some.” He slipped the bit from his mouth to let him eat, but it
proved to be a sick beast’s fancy; he would not eat. He plucked two or
three croppings, but dropped them from his mouth. Hi didn’t like the
look of his eyes nor the feel of his skin. “What is it, old son?” he
asked. “What is turning you up? Was it the rain yesterday, or what?”

The horse drooped his head and trembled a little. “This is bad,” Hi
thought, “but I must get on, cruelty or no. He may be better presently.”

He led the horse forward till he reached a place where the reeds grew
across the causeway. He thrust into the reeds for a minute, when he
found that he was treading in water over his shoes. Four or five inches
down, the roots of the reeds, the surface of the earth, or both things
together, made a hard bed on which he could walk. “I think it will be
all right,” he said; “it seems fairly safe: anyway, this is my
direction; this bog can’t last much longer: I must be almost across, and
I simply won’t waste time by trying for another way.”

He slopped on slowly for another hundred yards, leading the horse. The
reeds grew thicker as he proceeded. They were hard in the leaf like
cactus and tough in the stem like bamboo. He had to back into them,
dragging the horse, who came unwillingly; sometimes he could not break
through, but had to edge round a clump. It was hot work paddling
backward thus. After the first hundred yards the water began to deepen.
Birds which had never before seen a man moved away at his coming; a
deep, intense droning of insects sounded about him: insects got into his
eyes and seemed to like being there. Many midges, with tiny black spots
upon their wings, thrust under the wrist-bands of his shirt and below
his collar, where they bit like sparks of fire. Suddenly the reeds let
in a great deal more light: he had backed through into the open. He
found himself standing almost knee deep in a lake of water two or three
miles long by a mile broad. There was no way across from there: he had
come the wrong way.

Perhaps, in his disappointment, had his horse been fit, he might have
tried to swim across, holding to his horse’s tail. The temptation to try
was strong in him; the water, though deep, looked so beautiful, and the
distance, in that light, so small. What made him hesitate was a patch of
weed near the further shore. “I might get snarled up in that,” he
thought, “or come to a mud patch and not be able to land.”

At the instant, something gave a sharp and savage pluck at his leg; he
kicked the thing from him and at once splashed back among the reeds.
“One of those snappers that father was always gassing about,” he
thought, as he recovered from his start; “he always said that the
fresh-water fish would eat a man. I must give up swimming it, that’s
all.”

He turned back in depression through the reeds. “Just as I thought I’d
crossed it,” he muttered. His horse seemed to share his depression. He
came back through the reeds in a way which seemed to say, “I could have
told you that you couldn’t cross here. Now you’ll have to fag all the
way back again, and you know that I have not any strength to waste.”
Going back made him realise how much further he had come than he had
supposed. It seemed to be miles to the starting place, but he reached it
at last.

“Dash it all,” he said, while he halted to consider, “I believe that
this is the place which Anton mentioned: the place he meant when he said
I couldn’t go so, because there was no ground. Well, if I’d only thought
of that sooner, I might have spared myself some pain. Now he said that
there was some sort of a track hereabouts, which would take me clean out
of the forest. Puzzle, find the track. I see no trace of any track. I’ll
take a cast, to see if I can hit it off.”

He took two casts, one in each direction, but could see nothing like a
track. “If there was one,” he thought, “it was very likely washed out by
the rain yesterday. Anyhow, I have tried the east and the middle: they
are both wrong. If there’s any way at all to the north from here, it
must be to the west. Here it is mid-day pretty nearly, and I have not
started yet.”

He set out to the west, through a forest of vast trees, which stood over
him like gods watching a beetle. When he had ridden for an hour, he
turned into a valley, down which suddenly a mist of rain came sweeping.
It came less violently than the rain of the day before, but settled in
as though it would last for ever. In a few minutes the forest had
changed to a dimness full of footsteps and sighings, across which shapes
of cloud faded and formed and faded.

“I must keep on, and then bear to the right,” Hi said. “This won’t last
as long as it did yesterday.”

He kept on for some hours at a walk, till he was stopped by a bog. A
river or large stream which perhaps ran into the lake at its western end
here had silted up its mouth over some acres of forest. A rotting mush
barred the way; there was no passing. As moving to the right brought him
to reeds growing in water, he moved to the left, uphill, until his horse
stopped.

He had saved a feed of corn against an emergency: the horse nosed at it,
but would not eat. “Poor beast,” Hi thought, “he’s in a pretty bad way.
I’ll rub him down and give him a rest. If we both rest for a little it
will do no harm.” After grooming the horse, he contrived what shelter he
could, and fell asleep. He woke once, to find the rain streaming on his
face, woke a second time, to find that the rain had stopped; then sleep
took hold of him body and soul and held him as one dead.

He slept all through the afternoon and would have slept longer far into
the night, but that he was suddenly startled by the shattering of a
volley of shots from some place far away. “There it is,” he cried,
starting up, “that is Don Manuel coming to the rescue.” Other shots
followed, some, at first, close together in volleys, the later ones
singly. After the shots, listening intently as he was, he thought that
he heard the sound of many horses going together at a fast trot. Some
such noise there was, it rang out, died down, clopped and clinked and
then clattered. “Of course, it can’t be Don Manuel,” he said, coming to
himself. “But it may be the Whites driving away the Reds. Anyhow, people
are there: the forest ends. It may even be Anselmo. Come on, horse,
here’s the world again. ‘They must be men, because they’re fighting, and
they must be civilised because they’re doing it with guns.’”

The horse seemed the better either for the rest or the sound of his
fellows; when Hi mounted, he set off with some kind of spirit. In a
quarter of an hour he came to something which made the horse whinny; it
was a trail.

“Here it is,” Hi cried, “the very little trail which Anton spoke of. Now
I shall be out of it in no time. Just as well, too, because I’ve slept a
lot longer than I thought: it is almost night.”

The sun was indeed behind Melchior; the birds had homed and were now
screaming before falling silent. The patches of sky over the forest
turned slowly scarlet, paled yellow, then changed to a green in which
stars were bright. The sparks of the fireflies began to pass upon the
air: cold silence and darkness came with them into the forest, so that
Hi shivered. His heart, none the less, was beating with hope, because
the horse was going with confidence. Then from somewhere ahead came the
distant lowing of cattle, which brought tears to Hi’s eyes. It was the
noise made by the cows of home coming into the barton at Tencombe: now
here, in this strange place, it told of the homes of men, where life was
lived wisely, away from towns, and far from the madness of rulers like
Don Lopez.

Suddenly, from somewhere ahead, a single shot rang out: it may have been
far away, but in that still air it sounded near by. It was followed
almost at once by the sound of the gallop of a horse, which was either
running away or being ridden by a man in fear for his life. It stretched
at a full gallop across his front and so away into the west: one horse
only, mad with fear, or with his rider’s fear, going at his utmost: from
what?

“I wish I knew from what,” Hi thought. “Listen.”

He listened: many men were talking and shouting. Then there came the
noise of many horses together: seventy or a hundred; “as many as in a
hunt at home,” moving along a paven place at a walk, then rising to a
fast trot together. “And they are within two miles of me,” Hi thought,
“going from me.” He shouted, but had no answer save the sound of the
horses dying away into the west. The cattle lowed again. “There must be
a ranch there,” Hi said. “I’ll go to where those cows are.” He hailed
again and was answered by little white owls which followed him on both
sides, perhaps for grubs or beetles kicked up by the horse in his going.

Presently he came out of the forest into a little plantation of trees
made as a wind-screen, possibly for cocoa. Beyond this, he saw a cleared
space in which, less than half a mile away, were the long, low white
buildings of a ranch lit up as for a festival. To his right, there
seemed to be ordered plantations of fruit trees in blossom: he saw long
streaks of paleness which he judged to be peach trees. To the left,
rather further from him, were high corrales, where pale cattle moved and
lowed; he heard them stamp and push: often they rattled their horns upon
the bars.

He rode nearer to the buildings, then paused to hail, crying out that he
was English, and that they were not to shoot. He had no answer to any of
his hails. The place was still, save for the cattle: there was not even
a dog. “The men must be all at supper,” he thought, “or milking, if they
milk in these parts. But it is odd that they have no dog.”

The moon, now some three or four nights old, was low down over the
house, near the tops of Sierras, which glittered. “I don’t know what
sort of a course I’ve been riding,” he thought, “I seem to have been
going due west: or is the moon different down here? It seems to slop
about all over the place.”

Leaving the moon for the moment, he rode on towards the house, calling
out that he was a friend. Some shrubs, newly planted, on both sides of
his track, gave out a strong sweet scent: beetles and fireflies were
swarming over them with a droning of wings which made the silence the
more apparent.

“Is anybody there?” he cried. “Hullo there. Don’t shoot: I am a friend.
House ahoy, I’m a friend.”

By this time he was at a long white gate which had been thrust and
propped open far back to its supporting posts and rails. He entered the
gate, riding cautiously, still calling that he was a friend, but having
no answer, and hearing no sound, save the moving of the cattle in the
corrales and the buzz of insects in the shrubs.

“Not even a dog,” he repeated, “and there must be fifty men in a ranch
like this. What if they are all in ambush, waiting for me to come on?”

“It’s not likely,” he thought, after a moment, “but it is possible. They
may be waiting at those windows to plug me like a nutmeg grater. But if
they are, they’ll wait to see who is coming with me. It feels to me as
if the house were deserted.”

Beyond the gate, the way had been paven, the horse’s hoofs struck on a
road; the house cast back the echoes, clink, clink, at each step. As he
advanced, the young moon bobbed lower down towards the house-roof: no
sound came from the house.

“Hey,” Hi called, “I am a friend, an amigo; un ami. Je suis Anglais.
Ingles.”

Something in the ominousness of the silence brought his calling to an
end. There was something dreadful at work here. Something had stricken
the heart of that house so that its life had ceased. Yet not quite
ceased, for as Hi dismounted he saw a breath of smoke blow from one of
the chimneys across the curve of the moon. “What in the wide earth is
happening here?” he asked himself.

At a little distance from the house, to the left of the entrance, were
tethering posts from which iron rings hung. He had thought at first that
they were the posts at which the slaves were flogged; but he now knew
better. He hitched his horse to one of the rings, and then went slowly
towards the door. The house seemed to grow bigger as he approached it:
he felt himself shrink. He wished that his footsteps did not make such a
noise upon the road. “It is deserted,” he told himself, “it is all
deserted. But it is all lit up, so that it can only have been deserted
within the hour, after that shot was fired here.”

Six steps from the door a thought came to him which made his heart leap
for joy. “Of course, this is Anselmo,” he said. “I’ve come to Anselmo.
This is the Elena’s ranch, and the Elenas and all their men have either
gone to Don Manuel or joined the other Whites. That is it of course.
Well, here I am. And they’ve moved all their horses with them; those
were the horses which I heard. I’m late enough, but word has reached
them. ’Zeke must have got through.”

Thinking thus he crossed the two broad stone steps of the perron to the
estancia door.

An electric light burned over the door: some moths were butting at it.
The door itself was of black maruca, bound with steel. A big bronze
pipkin, such as the country people all over Meruel use for milking, hung
beside the door. “I suppose this is the bell,” he thought. “It’s just
like a castle in the Morte d’Arthur. Here goes for a bang.”

He struck the bronze, which clanged aloud, spinning round upon its cord
and thrilling: then he struck again more loudly, twice. The clang died
down into a trembling of the air, but all within the house was silent,
there was neither voice nor footstep. There came a rustling of wind from
the madre de cacao trees; nobody came, nobody spoke. “Is anyone inside
there?” Hi cried. There was no answer.

“I don’t believe that there is anybody here,” he said. Then the thought
came: “Suppose the people have all been rounded up or killed by the
Reds?”

“But, no,” he thought, “the Reds would have sacked and burned the place.
It is not that. I don’t know what it is: it must be something queer.” He
struck the bronze for a last time.