It is popularly believed that twins grow up in mutual love and
loyalty--and, when properly reared, this is not only probable,
but almost imperative--but these two grew up in mutual hatred and
antagonism; even though in face, form, brain, mind, and soul they
were as alike as the proverbial peas in a pod. They received the same
limited education in the same schools and classes, and up to the period
of this story were never apart; not because either so chose, but
because of the common influences of their environment, which decreed
the same paths and channels of thought and initiative.

They were orphans, and had their home with an illiterate stepfather,
whose early mistake of punishing one child for the fault of the other
raised the first barrier between them. The guilty boy was amused at the
mistake; but the victim, smarting with pain and a sense of injustice,
could not appreciate the humor of the situation, and waited for a
reversal of conditions, which, not happening immediately, he brought
about by a deliberate offense and an accusation of the other.

Then followed reprisal met with reprisal and in time each boy hated the
other with a hatred that dominated all other emotions, and, inspired
by previous grievance, would hesitate at no dishonorable and unboyish
trick whereby he might create trouble for him. It was genuine community
of soul; for it manifested itself in other and more pleasing ways, and
without mutual prompting. If one felt like playing hooky, the other
felt the impulse, and they would come together; but only to separate
with snarls. If one liked another boy, the twin shared the liking; and,
conversely, each disliked the enemy of the other, though never to the
point of defending him. They fought each other often; but never was
victory given to either. Each battle was a draw, and supremacy could
not be established; for neither would surrender until the other was
ready to.

So conditioned, physically, mentally, and morally, the cumulative
effect of the vicarious suffering of each brought them to the murder
mind when, at nineteen, they fell in love with the same maiden. The
episode need only be mentioned. They made love in the same way, and the
maiden repulsed each with the same catholic impartiality. Neither might
have won her alone; but both thought so, and in the furious battle with
fists, stones, and clubs that followed they received injuries which,
with the stepfatherly horse-whipping that came to them, laid them up
for a week. Had they been endowed with a sense of humor, or had they
been separated long enough to acquire one, they might have been spared
the soul-consuming malignancy that now possessed them; as it was, each
rose from bed while hardly able to walk, and, resolved to get away
from the other, ran away from home, stowing away in the same ship, a
three-skysail yarder bound to Sydney.

These things I learned from the maiden referred to, whose father
commanded the big ship, and from later inquiry in their native village.
From now on, however, they were more or less under my immediate
attention; for I was second mate of that ship.

Mr. Butterell, the first mate, hauled Bill out of the paint locker
about the same time that I found Tom in the lazarette, and we brought
the two together under the break of the poop for the captain's
inspection and decision. It was plain from their faces as they eyed
each other that neither had expected to find the other on board;
but, after glaring at each other for a moment, they assumed a moody
indifference, which left them only for an instant when a low voice on
the poop above said, "Why, Papa! The Landon boys!"

I was surprised myself--though agreeably so--for I did not know that
Mabel was to make the voyage with us, and, looking up to where she
stood with her father, I received a nod and a smile.

A little here, in parenthesis, about myself. I was twenty-four, and had
sailed four voyages with Captain Merwin, the last two as second mate,
mainly to keep in touch with this girl who, as a child of fourteen,
had been my shipmate on the first. And because of this I felt a secret
disappointment that the captain had not signed me first mate on this
occasion instead of second; for I had entertained a youthful hope and
ambition to present myself to her as her father's first officer when
we met again. But the highly efficient, handsome, and self-confident
Mr. Butterell had forestalled me in this; though I did not dream at
the time that he would also forestall me with Mabel, or that the two
loutish stowaways had attempted to.

They were tall, well built, and with a look of crafty intelligence in
their faces, which, with their embarrassment and their ill-fitting
clothes, bespoke the village loafer. Only by these clothes could they
be told apart. They were exactly alike, each with the same red hair,
high cheekbones, and squinting green eyes, and each chewed tobacco and
spat on the deck in a way to bring disapproval to the face of the gray
old skipper.

"You are stowaways," he said, "and, as my daughter informs me,
brothers, from my own home town. Why have you done this?"

"To get away from him," grunted Tom, jerking his thumb toward Bill. "I
hate him like so much pizen."

"And you?" asked the skipper of Bill.

"I didn't know I'd find him here," answered Bill with a vindictive
squint at Tom, "or I wouldn't ha' come."

"Twin brothers," commented the captain, "and on bad terms! Well, you
will have little time to quarrel aboard this ship, and plenty of time
to make friends. It is too late to get rid of you; so you must work.
Put them in separate watches, Mr. Butterell."

"Yes, sir," answered Mr. Butterell, reaching for Bill. "I choose you,"
he added, as his grip closed on Bill's collar. Then he swung him at
arm's length aft toward the poop then forward with all his strength,
hurling him, rolling and scrambling wildly, fully thirty feet along the
deck. Then, with a quick, self-satisfied smirk up at those on the poop,
he repeated the feat upon Tom.

Now a few words about Mr. Butterell. He was, all in all, the most
efficient executive officer I had ever sailed with. He knew his
business, from knotting a rope yarn up to masting a ship. In shortening
sail he could get canvas in as though it obeyed an intelligent
knowledge of his wish; but it was really because of his wonderful voice
and vocabulary. He never missed or repeated an order, and could send
his words against a gale from the poop to the weather fore earing as
distinctly and articulately as he would read off morning sights to the
skipper.

Unlike myself, a graduate of the schoolship St. Mary, he had worked his
way up from the forecastle; yet he had mastered more of navigation
than do most merchant skippers, and could figure great circle sailing
and take star and lunar sights. Besides, as I learned on further
association with him, he possessed a conversational power rare in
seafaring men, but developed in him by wide reading and wide-open eyes.
Added to this, he had the build and strength of a giant, the agility
of a panther, the fistic skill of a prize-fighter--and the vanity of a
spoiled child.

He seemed unable to perform the most commonplace action without a
half-involuntary and quick look around to notice some possible token
of approval, and in the absence of his social or professional equals
would seek it from the men, even from the Chinese cook. And with this
weakness was allied another, still more incompatible with his assured
mental and physical strength--an active hatred for the class of men
from which he had risen. It was the first of these that had prompted
that quick smirk toward the poop, and the second that impelled him to
follow the two human projectiles and, with kicks, clouts, and forceful
language, hasten their progress forward.

It was nearly four bells of the first dog-watch, or, more explicitly,
about ten minutes to six in the evening, of the first day out, and
though the watches had not yet been chosen half the crew had gone to
supper at three bells, when the day's work was done, and now, having
finished, had struggled out of the forecastle lighting their pipes.
Also the captain, his daughter, and Mr. Butterell had eaten supper; but
the rest of the men and myself would not have ours until four bells.
Hence, for the time, all hands were on deck to witness the breaking in
of the stowaways.

I could see no approval in the faces of the men as they watched the
brutal spectacle, and in Mabel's, as I glanced upward, I saw horror and
fright; but in Captain Merwin's face was nothing to indicate approval
or disapproval. My own, however, must have reflected the strong disgust
that I felt; for the captain, seizing his daughter's arm, said, "Come,
Mabel," and led her aft.

"Afraid," I muttered bitterly, "to antagonize his fancy first mate!"
For Captain Merwin was a kindly man, and I had often heard him correct
his officers for assaulting the men.

The exhibition of prowess went merrily on, Mr. Butterell using the
helpless youths like billiard balls, knocking one against the other
and frequently making a carom against the rail. But at the main hatch,
after a peculiarly successful fist play in which both brothers struck
the rail and clung to it, Mr. Butterell turned his head quickly, looked
aft with the smirking expectancy of his face, and, finding the audience
for which he had performed no longer at the break of the poop, gave
over the play, and started aft with his face as sober as my own.

And before he had taken three steps one of the brothers--I could not
tell which at the distance--wrenched an iron belaying pin from the
rail and hurled it at his head. It missed; but continued on a flat
trajectory to the cabin, from which it rebounded after making an
inch dent and whirled forward again and over the lee rail. Had Mr.
Butterell's head stopped it, he would never have moved or spoken again.

He wheeled when the pin whizzed by him, and with a bound put himself
between the two and the forecastle; for each had turned forward.

"Who threw that belaying pin?" he said quietly but menacingly.

"He throwed it; I didn't," answered one, pointing to the other.

"He lies!" retorted the accused one. "He throwed it himself."

"I lie, do I?"

"Yes, you lie!"

And then they were at each other's throats. Forgetting the common
enemy, they clenched tightly and whirled about the deck, bending
this way and that, striving to trip each other, striking with short
uppercuts, and even attempting to bite. But at this the interested men
forward crowed aft with sober faces, and Mr. Butterell, sensing their
mood, stepped jauntily past the fighters and came aft with an amused
smile on his face. Before he reached my vicinity I saw the men part the
two and lead them forward.

"Did you," said Mr. Butterell to me, his smile leaving him as he looked
at me, "did you, I say, see which one threw that pin?"

"I saw it thrown, sir," I answered; "but I could not tell which one
threw it."

"And wouldn't tell me if you could!" he sneered. "I can see that in
your face."

"Mr. Butterell," I said as calmly as was possible, "if I knew which one
threw it, I should tell you; for their unbrotherly conduct just now
destroyed what sympathy I may have felt for them."

"Sympathy for them!" he exploded. And now I knew the animus of his
heckling of me--his audience was again looking down at us. "Sympathy
for them!" He shook one finger under my nose. "Now I'll tell you, young
fellow," he continued, "before we go any further, that I'm first mate
of this craft and I'll dictate the sympathies of any man under me!"

"And I'm second," I retorted hotly, "with a right to sympathize with
whom I like! And take your hand away from my face, Mr. Butterell!"