At the proper age and condition he developed the usual habit of forming
mental pictures while looking into a grate fire, and enjoyed the usual
introspective calm and comfort therein; but in him, the primordial
inheritance also found expression at an age so early that it might
have formed a part of his infant reproduction of the Stone Age. From
the time he could crawl he loved the fire with the fixed, passionate
devotion of the cat, and, like the cat, he would lie contentedly for
hours on the rug before the hearth, or, to the scandal of the cook,
remove the kitchen stove lids and scorch his face over the glowing
coals.

He seemed to possess a salamander-like immunity from its effects;
again and again he was burned, but never to the point of fear, utterly
disproving the theory that burned children dread the fire. He loved
fire, and played with it, setting the carpet of his play-room in flames
at the age of three. At five he had made a bonfire of his toys, at
seven burned the barn down, and at ten was a past master in the art of
building camp fires in the woods--fires without smoke, fires of green
wood, wet wood, and rotten wood; fires of great heat and little flame,
and fires that went out without constant attention.

In playing Indian he was a valuable comrade, and though we did not meet
until the mutations of schoolboy life brought us together in the same
class--his early history coming to me later--I found this proficiency
the one asset in George Morton's character. He was a high-strung,
nervous lad, morbid and erratic at times, cowardly except in reference
to fire, and a bully when he dared be. He even lacked the school-boy's
sense of honor, which permits stealing anything eatable, and lying for
any purpose except self-defense.

Our first meeting was momentous, determining and fixing our mutual
attitude, and our nearly common interest in a third person, who was
to strongly influence us both. I was crossing a vacant lot which was
part of his wealthy father's property when I found him tormenting a
small girl of four. He had rigged her doll to the tail of his kite,
and was laughing gleefully at her anguish as the inanimate pet soared
aloft. I claim no chivalric impulses at the time; I was bad boy of the
village--a title I had earned by my health, strength, and willingness
to fight--and here was a chance for a fight.

A short conflict ended in victory for me and a new emotion born of
the child's happy smile as the doll was restored to her arms. It was
solely paternal and protective in its nature, and had I not taken note
of the wonderful beauty of the tot it would have remained so; but the
pure little face stamped itself on my mind as an earthly picture of
the super-human, and, though it made no sexual appeal, it protected me
for years against the love affairs of boyhood and youth. She became my
goddess, and has remained so.

But I was brought to earth by the impact of a stone on my head, and the
whimpering voice of my late victim coming from a distance.

"That's my sister," he said, "and you leave her alone and mind your own
business."

My pursuit of him was fruitless, for his legs were longer than mine;
but it seemed to have aroused in him the same protective regard for his
sister as had animated me, for from that time on he never teased her,
and often left the boys to lead her away from possible annoyance from
them--and from probable contact with me. There was danger from the
latter, for on many occasions I "played hooky" to loll away the day in
the bushes, satisfied with one glimpse of the child playing near the
door. And I always returned to school bettered by the experience; for I
studied harder, realizing my seafaring father's ambition that I should
have an education, and responding to his advice that if I "_must_ be a
sailor, to be the right kind--a naval officer." He, with his blood, his
example, and his talk, had impressed upon me his love of the sea, but
instead of crawling in the hawsepipes as he had done I compromised by
winning, in a competitive examination, an appointment to Annapolis, at
the age of sixteen.

My closest competitor was George Morton, from whom I received
half-friendly hints that he would get even, and my warmest admirer
his young sister, now about ten, to whom I, in my new capacity of
prospective hero, had officially been introduced. She thought I was
going to war, and earnestly asked me to be careful and not be killed.

Morton spent two years more at school before going to college, and
in this time made good his threat to get even. He was a popular hero
many times over before I had become sure that I could hold my own
in study, and he acquired this distinction by timely use of his one
talent. In the exclusive, restricted community of wealthy families
there was little of the material from which firemen are drawn, and as
a consequence a volunteer fire company had been formed, with palatial
quarters, gorgeous uniforms, and an up-to-date equipment. Fires were so
scarce, however, that its activity had found vent in parades, dinners,
and balls, until George Morton joined it. Then, as though in response
to the presence of its lover and master, fires broke out here and
there in the manor, all of which he attended, and most of which were
extinguished by his efforts or advice. He intuitively knew the thing
to do--just where to play the stream, just when to pull down a wall.
In six months he was made foreman, and in this time had saved much
property and a few lives.

But his notable feats were performed later, and these were told me by
his sister Grace, when I had finished my second year, and George was
ready for college. My parents had died since my appointment, but I took
my vacations at home, just to meet and be near her.

"He is brave as a lion," she said, with twelve-year-old enthusiasm.
"Why, when Mr. Mills' big house burned down he went up a ladder to the
third story, which hadn't caught fire yet, and went all through the
building until he had found and brought out three servants who were
unconscious from the smoke. Then he even went back for the dog, and
saved him."

"That was good work," I responded, rather vacantly.

"And then," she went on, "when the big, new schoolhouse caught fire he
happened to be right there to notice it from the outside, and after
getting all the children out safely he entered the building at the head
of his fire company and extinguished the fire. He went right into the
blazing basement with a fire extinguisher and put it out himself. None
of the rest wanted to go in, either."

I grunted my approval. I had never liked him, but evidently had
misjudged him. The child continued:

"But the bravest thing he did was when the seminary caught fire at
night. He was asleep when the alarm sounded and he rushed to the
fire half clothed. The whole lower story was afire, and above were
the dormitories with over a hundred girls fast asleep; but he went
up, right through the flames coming from the windows, and wakened
everybody. Then he pulled up ladders with a rope, and helped the girls
down. He was the last to come out, and just in time, for the walls fell
in a moment later."

"You have a fine brother," I responded, joining the girl in her
enthusiasm, and willing to do him justice. "I never thought he had
courage at all, but he certainly has proved it."

"Oh, he has," she rejoined. And then, with sisterly single-mindedness,
she gave me this: "He isn't afraid of you any more, and says he is
going to thrash you."

"Me--why?" I asked in amazement. "What for?"

"Oh, papa says the same, too. They say that a man of your age ought to
be thrashed for talking to a girl of twelve. But I don't see why. I
like to talk to _you_."

The disparity in our ages had not influenced me when younger, and as it
was growing less each day that we lived I had not given it a thought.
But this new attitude of her father and brother compelled me to, and in
helpless anger and chagrin--for I was either the same bad boy of the
village, or, still worse, a man playing the boy--I forswore her society
and went back to my third term at the academy, resolved not to seek her
again until she was of age. And with me on the train, as it pulled out
of town, was George Morton, bound for college, but we did not speak.

I manfully held to my resolution until I had finished my course at
the academy and my two years of sea service. Then I graduated, a
commissioned officer of the United States Navy, and with this backing,
and the heart hunger strong upon me, I returned to my old home,
bound to see my boyhood divinity at any cost. But I did not see her;
instead, I saw her brother at the door, and the stormy scene that
followed assured me that conventional social relations with her were
impossible. So, convinced that he had nursed the old antagonism through
the years, I fumed and sulked while waiting for sea orders, and even
half-heartedly planned unconventional relations--I sought to meet
her outside her home. But before I had met with any success, orders
came from Washington, sending me, not to a seagoing ship, but into
retirement until possible war should make my services of value to my
country.

With my career ended in the navy, and without friends, money, or
influence, I did the next best thing in the way of a livelihood. I
went to sea in the merchant service, beginning as third mate, and
learned real seafaring, which is good for sulks and heartaches. In
three years I was first mate, with the confidence of my skipper and
owners, and the prospect of a command; which attainment, and my assured
education and social position as a graduate of Annapolis, might give
me hope and courage to again approach my goddess. But, gradually
and imperceptibly--unknown to myself because there was none to tell
me--the little niceties and refinements of speech, manner, and dress
acquired at the academy, and which make a naval officer eligible to any
society in the world, had worn away from me under the harder work and
rougher associations of the merchant service; so that, when paid off at
Philadelphia in my twenty-sixth year, I was as hardy a specimen of the
typical "Yankee mate" as could be found on the water front. I shaved
for comfort, not appearance, and wore my clothes for utility rather
than beauty.

Thus arrayed and conditioned I killed time while waiting for word to
join my ship, and one day ran over to Asbury Park, finding the huge
resort half deserted, as it was in October; but there was enough of
life there to suit me, the air was clean and salt as that at sea, and I
decided to remain a few days.

I remained too long for my peace of mind and immediate welfare. The
quiet and solitude brought back the old morbid melancholy, and in this
mood I wandered about the beach and through the streets lined with
deserted cottages, fighting with myself and reviling the fates that
had made sport of my life and ideals. In this mood I was ripe for any
adventure, and spying, late at night, a figure slinking by me in the
darkness, that reminded me of George Morton, I softly followed, keeping
him in sight, but not letting him see me. He entered a dark, two-story
house in a row of other dark cottages, and I mechanically walked on,
halting before the house, with a hazy idea that perhaps it _was_ George
Morton, and that his family lived there. No light appeared from within,
however, and I slowly retraced my steps, pausing at the next street
lamp to fire up my pipe.

While puffing at the half-lit tobacco a dark figure darted from across
the street and joined me in the lamplight. It was a girl, all but her
face hidden by a hooded cloak, and this face was so white, drawn,
and terror-haunted, that I could barely recognize in it some little
resemblance to that of the child I had loved. Then she spoke, and
before my brain had grasped the fact that Grace Morton must have grown
up, I knew her voice. And the next moment, without leave or ceremony, I
had her in my arms, and kissed the frightened face until she struggled
free.

"Oh, Jack," she said brokenly, "and it is really you, after all! I saw
you to-day from the parlor of the hotel, but I could not be sure--you
have changed so much. Where have you been all these years? I have
needed you so much, _so much_, and I could trust no one but you. You
must help me to-night, Jack."

"Of course," I answered. "What is it?"

"My brother--you know him. Did you know?--no, you couldn't. Jack, he
has gone into the house there--the house we have lived in all summer;
and I think, I almost know, he is setting fire to it. You followed him.
I saw you. Did you notice a bundle?"

"Setting fire!" I exclaimed in amazement. "Why, I thought--"

"Yes," she interrupted. "We all thought him a fire hater, because
he did not fear it. But he loves it. He set fire to every house and
building that he later helped put out; Mr. Mills' house--remember--and
the school, and the seminary. He joined the church since then, and
confessed to father and me. But father is dead now, and I am alone with
him. Come, you must stop him. Stop him by force, before it is too late.
Come! I am afraid of him alone. He is insane--at these times."

She seized my hand and hurried me back, puzzled and astounded at this
new revelation of human nature.

"He carried a bundle under his arm," she whispered as we reached the
door. "It is very likely a can of kerosene, purchased in Philadelphia,
where he went this morning. I was to go to New York, but I suspected
him and came back."

She opened the door with a key and we softly passed in. At once I
detected a faint odor of kerosene, but there was no light, no sound.
Grace led me through the lower rooms, but there was no sign of fire,
smoke, or firebug. We opened the cellar door and peered down into the
blackness, and the cool, odorless air told us that he was not there
with his oil.

"Upstairs," she whispered.

"Why not sing out?" I asked, in her ear. "It'll stop him."

"Don't you see?" she answered. "I want to catch him in the act, to
shock him, overwhelm him--and cure him."

I acquiesced, and we climbed the stairs, making no noise and sensing
more strongly as we went the rank smell of kerosene. She led me into
the front room, the door of which stood open. All was dark, and there
was no significant odor.

"This is his room," she whispered. "He must be in mine, in the rear."

We passed into the hall and peeped into this room. From a lighted house
on the next street a faint illumination showed up every corner in it;
and there in the middle, stooping low over his work, was George Morton,
laying a trail of oil from the nozzle of a can, back and forth across
the carpet. This done, he made a neat pile of newspapers against the
wall, emptied the can upon it, and applied a match. A nudge from the
girl started me and I walked in upon him. He uttered one snarling yell
as he glared into my face, then sprang upon me.

I was a strong, healthy man, large of frame, heavy, and well-trained in
most forms of personal combat; but I soon realized that I was fighting
a maniac. He writhed, twisted, and bent himself, forcing me again and
again to change or renew my hold upon him. Even though I held him at
arm's length, I could not retain my grip without help from the other
hand, and then I would likely feel one or both of his feet on my chest.
It was like wrestling with a panther. I shook him, and, flail-like,
whirled him around me, but I could not conquer him without hurting
him, and this I did not wish to do. As the fight resolved itself into
a struggle of endurance, I heard a few broken words from Grace, barely
distinguishable above the noise of the scuffle, and a later glance
around told me that she was gone.

And still I fought on, endeavoring to master the firebug without
hurting him--just why, I have never been able to explain to myself.
Possibly, I dimly felt at the time that his sister would not like it,
for I spared him the weight of my fist and the throttling clutch that
would have ended the fight in a moment, even though his own hands had
torn my coat to shreds, and my face was scorched and smeared with
kerosene in one of my whirling lunges toward his bonfire. He, too, must
have felt the heat, for his snarling utterances took on a note of pain,
and for a few moments he struggled in my grasp more furiously than
ever; then he paused, became limp in my hands, and seemed to sink down.
It was a clever ruse, for no sooner had I relaxed my hold than he broke
away and shot out of the room, down the stairs, and into the street.
I let him go, but looked around; the room was in flames on two sides,
while several trails of burning oil traversed the floor.

I believe that some men in my position would have followed him; but I
know that any fireman, policeman, soldier, or sailor would have done
exactly as I did--remain to put out the fire. I dragged the blankets
from the bed, whipped the flames from the walls and windows as I
could, and when they were burned beyond use threw the fragments on to
the still burning bonfire to smother it. As I labored I heard shouts
of "Fire!" in the streets, and welcomed the news that assistance was
coming. Then I heard the clatter and clang of the engines and voices
and footsteps on the stairs. I whipped away at the flames, and just
as I laid the last damaged blanket on the now smouldering fire, a
policeman burst into the room and seized me.

"Caught wi' the goods, hev! Stand still," he said. "Stand still, or
I'll fan you."

I ceased my momentary struggle with him as firemen came in with hose
and an extinguisher, and stopped myself in a half-uttered sentence of
explanation. This was a matter of family honor that need not be made
public.

"It's a job all right, isn't it, Bill?" asked the officer of a fireman
who was calmly playing a small stream from the extinguisher on the
remaining flames.

"Surest job I ever saw," answered the man, turning for a look at me in
the darkening light. "Pretty tough-looking customer. Don't belong to
this town. Smell the kerosene?"

"I smell it all right. You can smell it a mile, and he's got it on his
clothes, too. Come on wi' me, my jewel. You're good for a few years at
Trenton."

Under a fictitious name I spent the night in jail, and in the morning,
before the time for court to open, received a visit from Mr. George
Morton.

"Want to get at the person higher up, Mr. Morton?" asked the jailer, as
they appeared before my cell. "Well, I can give you about half an hour."

"Yes, yes," answered my visitor. "I want to talk with him privately;
so, leave us alone, if you will. But don't get beyond call, please--not
too far away."

"Right. I'll come if I hear from you."

He admitted Morton and locked him in with me, then left us alone.
Morton was clean and well-dressed, with only a nervousness of speech
and movement to indicate that a few hours before he had fought for
liberty and honor with the man he was now facing. He took a seat at the
end of my plank, while I sat at the other end, and took his measure;
thinner and older, of course, than when I had known him at school, but
with the same graceful figure, and handsome, though unpleasant, face.

"Well," I said, with what sarcasm I could command. "Are you here to get
me to tell who hired me to set fire to your house?"

"Not exactly," he answered, eying me closely. "I'm here to find out
what you mean to do."

"I'm waiting on you," I said sharply. "I've kept quiet on your sister's
account, but I expect you to clear up this matter, in any way you can."

"How? By pleading guilty myself? I am also interested in my sister, and
I do not think she would like it."

I looked at him.

"It lies between you and me," he went on. "The evidence at present is
all against you, while there is nothing against me, and nothing in my
record to indicate that I would set fire to the house I had lived in,
but did not own."

"But if your record was known," I growled, "there would be indications
bearing upon this."

"I see. You have listened to my sister. Do you think she would come
into court and swear away the liberty of her brother?"

A chill passed through me at this, but I answered doggedly: "Don't
know. It depends, I suppose, upon how much she thinks of her precious
brother."

"And also," he said softly, "upon how much _you_ think of _her_.
She took you--in my behalf, of course, though that might not be
proved--into her home at midnight when I was supposed to be in
Philadelphia. Do you care to have her cross-examined upon that point,
first by the prosecuting attorney who will try you, and then by my
lawyer in case I am tried?"

"Damn your wretched heart and soul!" I yelled. "Would you shield
yourself behind your sister's good name? Would you permit it, even to
save your miserable life?"

"Not so loud, please. I answer that question in kind. Would you?"

"No!" I thundered. "A thousand times no!"

"Then plead guilty. My sister, who is a very resourceful and
self-possessed girl, turned in the fire alarm as the quickest way
to end our little difficulty, and she is in New York this morning,
believing that you and I walked out. But it was I who notified the
policeman of my discovering a firebug at work in my deserted home.
You have given a wrong name, and she will not be interested in the
little noise your trial will make--unless, I suppose, you arouse that
interest."

He got up to call the warden, and I was upon him as the words left his
lips. But I did not harm him much; I had not the time. I dropped him at
the muzzle of the warden's pistol, and cooled down at my leisure.

I did not plead guilty; I remained doggedly silent, however, and not
even the efforts of the lawyer appointed to defend me availed to
mitigate my sentence. I had been caught red-handed, had made a furious
assault upon the kindly disposed tenant of the house I had fired, and
this, indicating a deep, dark vengeance based upon some real or fancied
wrong, brought me the swift, harsh decree of Jersey justice--five years
in the Trenton penitentiary. And so not even notifying my captain, I
sank out of sight as completely as though I had signed for a voyage and
sailed.

Five years behind the bars will alter the character--yes, even the
soul--of any man living. And I do not claim that mine was changed
for the better. I began that five years with the faint hope that,
somehow, Grace Morton would learn of my plight and devise means to
free me. Then, as this hope left me with the passing of the months,
a dull, apathetic inertia took possession of me, and I worked, ate,
and slept as mechanically as an animal. Then came the meridian of my
imprisonment, when two years and a half had expired, and I could look
forward to release. With this prospect in view my mind woke to a keener
activity than it had ever known under the spur of ambition; for that
ambition was based upon a love for a girl that was now eclipsed by a
hatred for her brother. I looked forward to freedom, not that I might
win that girl, but that I might find that man--somewhere, and alone.

As for Grace Morton, the doubt often came to my mind as to whether I
ever had loved her. I had really known her only as a prattling child;
I had met her once, as a woman, and in the fervor of my sudden emotion
had embraced and kissed her. Was that love? Was her acquiescence the
sign of a mental invitation, or only the acceptance of a matter of
course? Was the sister of such a brother worth loving?

Yet these unsettled doubts invariably crystallized unto the hope that
she would so prove herself, and with this hope in mind my plans for
vengeance never embraced the killing of my enemy, only the meeting
with him, alone in some secluded place, where I could use my superior
strength and skill and thrash him within an inch of his life.

In one way my imprisonment had refined me, or rather, worn off the
rough spots acquired at sea. Good behavior had brought no commutation
of my five years' sentence, but it had brought me light tasks instead
of hard ones, and one of these was the care of the prison library,
which gave me communion with many good books.

So I emerged at last with none of the working sailor about me except
in my mind, and none of the prisoner except the cropped hair and cell
pallor. These last I got rid of in a short coasting voyage before the
mast, and then, with my chest, money, and discharges replevined from
the Philadelphia boarding master who had faithfully cared for them, I
visited my old home. Here I learned that my imprisonment was not known
and that George Morton and his sister were traveling in Europe for the
shattered health of the former. Then, with the unregenerate hope that
soon it would be given me to shatter that health still further, I went
back to my battle of life, for in love, war, or work a man must live.

Luck was with me from the start. I signed before the mast and filled a
sick second mate's place before the ship had reached the line. And at
Hongkong found my old captain, who had a first mate's berth vacant, and
was glad to get me back without asking questions. A few questions to
him, however, brought out the reason of this delicacy.

"If you young fellows knew," he remarked dryly, "all that you surely
learn later, you'd let the stuff alone. I'm part owner here, and when
you went on that drunk and quit me I had made up my mind to put you in
command. 'Tend to business, now, and you can take her out next voyage."

"I'll make good, sir," I answered, pleased with the prospect, and
willing to be thought an ex-drunkard rather than an ex-convict.

"But keep still about it," he said. "The principal owner is on board
for the trip home. Your job is to impress him before the proposition is
put up to him. He's somewhat crotchety and queer."

I joined the ship--a big, black, skysail yarder, filled to the hatches
with sugar and jute--as she was lifting her anchor. We went to sea in
a gale, and for two days and two nights I had not time to unpack my
chest, much less to take note of my surroundings and the impression
I was creating as a first mate fitted to command. I saw the owner
occasionally in the brief lulls of shortening down--a tall, spare
figure, muffled to the nose in a hooded mackintosh--but I did not meet
him until the morning of the third day out, when, after an hour or two
of sleep, I turned out for a look around before going to breakfast, and
there, in the forward companion, ran plump into him. The next moment
I had him by the throat, position, prospects, honor, love, and liberty
going down before the uprush of rage and hatred.

There flashed into my mind at that moment a memory from boyhood,
forgotten through the years, of his father being largely interested
in shipping, but it was futile, irrelevant, and left me as it came;
then, while he sagged under my grip, there came to me the picture of
Grace Morton's frightened face as she had turned it up to me in the
lamplight. But I forced it from me. That love is dead, I thought, and
I hissed the thought through my teeth with my curses. Then, thinking
of the long, bitter years in prison, the suffering and the shame, the
thwarted hopes and plans, the struggle to maintain my integrity for
the sake of a girl that had forgotten me, and knowing only that the
cause of it all was right here, in my hands, I felt what I had not felt
before--the impulse, the desire, and the self-justification to kill.

But I did not kill him. I relaxed my hold and looked into the same
frightened face that had appealed to me once before. Older now, with
lines of care and trouble in it, but more womanly and commanding. She
stood in the dining-room door, and had commanded me to stop; and I
obeyed her. Her brother slunk past her into the dining-room. The second
mate was on deck, the steward had not come aft with the breakfast. The
captain had not come through from the after cabin. None but the girl
had seen the assault.

"Go to your room, George," she called to him through the door. "Wait
for me, and say nothing to the captain."

Then she turned, and calmly regarded me. On my part, I stood before her
like a culprit, trembling, and with my tongue dry against the roof of
my mouth.

"Jack," she said, "I have watched you through this window since we
sailed, watched you in your strength and mastery of your calling. And
I have listened to your voice, that roused me from sleep on the first
night, and which I recognized as yours. And I said to myself that you
were a man, that you must be a man, and that I may have misjudged you.
But here, you assault an invalid for a quarrel over five years old,
that began in my behalf, I admit, but which ended in your own."

"An invalid," I managed to say. "A quarrel--in my behalf? Go on,
please, Miss Morton."

"In your own," she repeated. "Of course, I do not know how men feel,
and what the best may say at times about--about a woman. But could you
not let it drop, instead of resuming it here, on this ship, where I am
a passenger?"

"Please explain. You let _me_ drop, Miss Morton, when I needed you; but
I have not complained. It seems that the slightest inquiry must have
apprised you of my extremity. It seems that something might have been
done that would not compromise you."

It was her turn to be mystified. "What do you mean?" she asked. "Do you
deny me dignity, self-respect, pride, or confidence in myself? Could I
_inquire_ about a man who had taken advantage of my momentary weakness
and boasted of it? Not only boasted, but threatened to a member of my
family that he would follow up his advantage for revenge at a beating?"

"Boasted! Revenge at a beating! Grace, explain yourself. You are
accusing me of something. What is it? Boasting that I kissed you?"

"That," she said, looking defiantly into my face, while two red spots
came to her cheeks. "That, and threatening my brother, after your
defeat at his hands, with making your mastery complete."

"The damnable scoundrel!" I said explosively. "Did he tell you that
lie? Did he say that he defeated me?"

"I saw him getting the best of you," she said, with a little doubt in
her face.

"Because I did not want to hurt your brother. Did you turn in an alarm?"

"Yes."

"Before the firemen came your brother had got away from me and ran.
Then I, remaining to extinguish the fire, was arrested for causing it."

"Arrested?" Her eyes opened in wonder and alarm.

"And the best proof, Miss Morton," I said grimly, "that I am too much
of a man to boast about a woman, is that I served five years in Trenton
prison rather than call upon you to clear me."

"You did? Jack!"

Tears started to her eyes, but I went on relentlessly:

"The case was well outlined to me by your brother on the morning after
my arrest. He had sent the policeman into the house after me, and
having succeeded so far, called upon me in jail to carry it further. I
was to plead guilty so as not to attract attention to him. The evidence
was against me. I was caught adding fuel to the fire, and with my face
and clothing smeared with oil. My only chance was that the girl that
I loved would come forward. She did not, and I could not ask her. No
doubt, your brother told you that lie to kill any interest or curiosity
you may have felt concerning me."

For a moment I thought she was going to faint. She paled to the tips of
her small ears, staggered back, and leaned against the bulkhead, her
lips parted and her eyes staring at me in wonder and horror.

"Why--why," she gasped, "why did you not tell me?"

"To ask that you save me at your brother's expense?" I answered.
"To place you on the stand, where the lawyers could bait you? To
compromise you? To shield myself behind a woman's good name? No, Miss
Morton, whatever I may have become under the influence of stripes and
confinement, I was, at that time, a graduate of Annapolis--an officer
and a gentleman."

She shrank away from me and seemed about to fall. Then, having spoken
my mind, the bitterness left me, and I would have gone back to prison
could I have unsaid my words. The old love replaced the hate, and I
reached forward, just to touch her hand, if I might; but she drew it
away.

"Don't," she whispered weakly. "Don't. I didn't know; I didn't know."
She was not speaking to me, and for a moment I hesitated. Then I
forcibly turned her face to mine and looked into her eyes, swimming
with tears. "It's all right, Grace," I said huskily. "Never mind."

"I would have come," she said, in a firmer voice, "but I did not--"

I had my arms around her now, and for a moment she lay unresisting, her
face close to mine; but the next moment she struggled free.

"The girl that you loved," she said softly, accenting the last word.

"And love now," I rejoined, seizing her again. Then I flung her from me
and bolted into my room, on the port side of the passage.

The captain had appeared in the dining-room, and seven bells--breakfast
time--rang on deck. When she reached the deck I went in to my breakfast.

That evening, in the last dog-watch, Grace came to me at the
weather-mizzen rigging.

"I have questioned him, Jack, and at last he admitted it," she said.
"He is a nervous wreck, has been so for a year, and now I know why.
Your term was coming to an end and for fear of you he has dragged me
all over Europe and the Orient. He had you watched and knew by cable
that you had shipped for Hongkong, but did not imagine that you would
join this ship, which he found here on our arrival. He did not expect
you here for a month."

"We made a fast passage out," I answered. "But what about him? What is
to be done with him? Is he still a pyromaniac?"

"I do not know. It is congenital, and may break out at any time. But at
any rate, I am through with him. He has forfeited all my regard. When
we get home I shall remain there."

"And I suppose you do not want the captain informed of his weakness for
fire?"

"Not unless you think it necessary, Jack."

"I think not," I said. "He is very properly scared and subdued, and
knows that I will be watching him."

There was little further intercourse between George Morton and myself.
He appeared on deck occasionally, but usually in my watch below, and
when we met he would turn his head away, much to the chagrin of the
captain, who had no knowledge of conditions. He was pale, emaciated,
and fidgety in his manner, evidently a very sick man, and beyond
all thought of punishment; but I felt no regret at the loss of my
vengeance--I had won something better, and was content.

His attitude toward his sister, however, was one of doglike devotion
and apology, while hers was one of toleration and contempt. He would
hasten to meet her at the companion, to help her to a seat, to bring
rugs or books, satisfied if she murmured a mere word of thanks. Then he
would banish himself and look at her hungrily, waiting to be called.
There is no doubt that, up to the limits of his narrow soul, he loved
his sister; but it was a love based upon possession--the property
instinct, the love of a dog for a cached bone, a bird for its perch, a
cat for those who have housed and fed her. He had lost something, and
wanted it back; and as it was lost forever I feared for that other love
that was part of his being--his love of fire.

I could not watch him when asleep, nor depute the task to others--all
I could do was to overhaul the deck and force pumps, make up an extra
supply of draw-buckets, and examine all approaches to the inflammable
jute in the hold. In that last I found nothing to alarm me. It could
not be reached except through the hatches, which were all battened
down. And it was all in the lower hold; on top of the ballast tiers of
sugar, and above it, stowed in the 'tween deck, was the rest of the
sugar. He could not set fire to the sugar, even if he reached it.

Yet in the hot, blistering heat of the Indian Ocean, when we had lain
for days in a calm that was harder on our nerves than a hurricane,
smoke filtered up through the seams in the cabin flooring--smoke with
the pungent odor of burning jute; and the first man to notice it was
George Morton.

"Done it, by heavens!" I growled, as I turned out in answer to the
captain's quiet call.

There was a consultation in the cabin of the after-guard, to which
were called the cook and steward, carpenter and sailmaker, and the two
boatswains from the forecastles. All of these reported the smell of
smoke in the compartments of the forward house, and the boatswain said
that it was plainly noticeable at the fore and main hatches. Grace
and her brother were listening; in Grace's face were uncertainty and
apprehension, in her brother's, as he darted furtive glances at me, the
deadly fear of immediate denunciation; but whether there was guilt or
not I could not determine.

No one could guess how the fire had started, and only two points were
elucidated from the discussion, both bearing upon the captain's opinion
that nothing could be done at present but to keep the hatches on and
smother it. The carpenter ventured the opinion that the fire could not
be smothered. "For the ship is a sieve, captain," he said. "You know I
told you so in Hongkong, and wanted you to calk her, topsides, deck,
and all. There's millions of little holes to let the air in."

"And even so," added Morton, "the interstices between the barrels of
sugar hold air that can be drawn upon."

"Right," said the captain impatiently, and a little sadly. "But it's
too late to calk every seam in this ship, and if it don't smother out,
and we can't make port, this ship is gone. All we can do is wait, for
if we open hatches and jettison sugar to get at it, we'll only give it
more draft."

So, we waited, but while waiting, headed the ship toward Calcutta, if
not to save our lives, at least to meet with some craft that could
deluge our jute with water--a large steamer, with power pumps and hose.
But nothing came our way, and the days and weeks went on, with the
deadening calm still engulfing us, and the deck growing hotter each
hour. Soon the smoke became visible, curling up in countless little
spirals, where the minute holes gave it egress.

Morton faced me one day, his eyes wide open and his face twitching. "I
know what you think," he stammered. "You think I set fire to the cargo.
But I swear by all I reverence that I did not. My sister believes in
me."

"Mr. Morton," I answered, steadily as I could, for I never was my real
self in his presence, "perhaps you did not. But all that makes me
think so is my utter inability to comprehend how you could do it. A man
who will fire a seminary will fire a ship at sea."

He slunk away from me, so pitiable and wretched an object that
immediately I was sorry for my words. After that I spoke kindly to him
whenever it was necessary to speak at all.

Work went on as usual; not that, in this doomed ship, painting and
scrubbing were necessary, but to keep the crew's minds off the danger
and the formulating of futile plans and suggestions--which always
comes of idleness. But in spite of this, mutterings of discontent were
heard, and in the interests of peace, I abolished all work except the
continuous washing down of the hot deck, night and day. And at this
monotonous work men would go to sleep in their tracks, waking when they
fell over.

I had long noticed the peculiar mental effect of the jute smoke
on myself, at first a tendency to day-dreams and a lazy, sleepy
indifference to our danger; later a trancelike condition in which
voices were not heard, or if heard not noticed, and the whole inner
consciousness busy with serene contemplation of the past, the present,
and the future, mingled with visions of green trees and flowers, sounds
of tinkling water, and music that seemed not of earth.

All this brought no misgiving to my mind until I wakened, prone upon
the blistering deck one night, with no recollection of my falling. Then
I regarded it as serious, and in the morning spoke to the captain.

"Yes, we must quit," he said mournfully, "while we have our senses.
It is the soporific principle of the jute, akin to that of hasheesh,
which is made from Indian hemp. No one could sleep below without that
continuous narcotic, and such sleep is dangerous. I had trouble waking
you yesterday. Capsize the boats and provision them. The ship may
burst into flames at any moment, and when she does, she'll go quickly.
She's dry as a chip."

We numbered about thirty, all told, and to accommodate this many we had
three good boats, upside down on the forward house. These I soon had
over the side, floating light upon the smooth sea at the ends of their
painters, and we provisioned them as heavily as was safe with our added
weight. When all was ready I reported.

"And none too soon," answered the captain. "Look there!" He pointed
forward, where the tarpaulin of the main hatch had lifted like a great
bubble from the pressure of hot air and gases beneath. "There is
dunnage under the hatch and it is afire, Mr. Morton," he said, turning
to our passenger, "you and your sister will go in the boat with me. I
will bring her up when I bring my papers."

I had no mind for this. I turned away, and while directing the manning
of the boats, did some deep and desperate thinking. Put her in an open
boat with a lunatic brother and a doddering old skipper, I fumed? Not
much.

As the men swarmed down, Grace appeared in the forward companion. I
beckoned to her, and she came. We had already rigged a whip from the
fore yardarm, and in a "bosun's chair" at the end of this I quickly
hoisted her over the side and into my boat. George, leaving his sister
to the captain's care, had descended to his boat on the other side.
When all were over but the captain and myself, the former appeared on
deck.

"Where is Miss Morton?" he called. "I cannot find her."

"In the boat, captain," I truthfully yelled. "Hurry up, sir. There's no
time to lose."

I pointed, as he had done, to the main hatch. The bubble had burst,
and up from the rent rose a column of smoke.

"Go ahead, sir," he answered. "I must be last."

I clambered down the side, and joined Grace in the sternsheets.

"Where is George?" she asked. "I thought he was coming, and the
captain, too."

"Both in the starboard boat," I answered. "You're in here with me,
where I can take care of you. Shove off!" I commanded. "Both boats
shove off, and get away from here."

The second mate had charge of the other boat, and together we shot
away from the ship, putting a hundred yards between us before pausing
to wait for the captain's boat from the other side. But it did not
appear at once. Instead, we heard loud shouts, and the name "Grace" in
Morton's tremulous voice.

"Miss Morton is here," I sang out, but, if heard, I was not answered.

Then the shouts ceased, and Morton's figure appeared on the opposite
rail.

"Grace!" he called. "Grace, where are you?"

"I'm here, George," she answered. "I'm safe. Save yourself."

"Here!" I bellowed. "Here with me! Get back into your boat."

But instead he jumped down on deck, out of our sight. We pulled back
toward the ship, and waited, a fair swimming distance away. Then, as a
box of matches bursts into fame, so did that huge ship. The main-hatch
covers flew into air, tangible and visible; and as they fell, the black
pillar of smoke increased in size and solidity, while each oaken rail
became a line of fire, and even the masts, dried by the heat of weeks,
turned to fiery red columns in a few minutes.

But the top of the cabin was still immune from the flames. And up the
after steps by the side of the companion climbed Morton. He ran to
the skylight, turned around, went part way back, and then retraced his
steps, calling again for his sister.

"Jump overboard!" I shouted. "Jump, for your life!"

He did not jump. With his hands to his nostrils he shuffled forward
toward the monkey-rail that overlooked the main deck, halting at
moments, only to shuffle again. He turned around once and took a
few steps backward, then wheeled suddenly and resumed his shuffling
advance. I called again and again for him to jump, and Grace joined
me in pleading screams, while I heard the captain calling from the
other side. But to no avail; the god that he worshiped was calling the
louder. He staggered now, reached the rail, and with arms extended as
though in supplication, plunged into the inferno beneath.

Only once since then has anyone spoken of him to me. It was the gray
old skipper, who, after our rescue, wanted to set me right.

"You thought he fired the ship," he said, "for he told me of your
suspicions, and felt badly. But he did not. It was all my fault, for I
should have calked the ship at Hongkong. That three-day gale that we
met let the water down on the jute. It was spontaneous combustion."

But, in mercy to each other, Grace and I never mention his name.