Let me forestall any sympathy I may have aroused for myself. I am not
the hero of this story. There is a heroine, but no hero; for neither
the mild-natured Captain Merwin, half hypnotized by the dashing Mr.
Butterell into a surrender of his principles, Mr. Butterell, actuated
by the cheapest motives of vanity and self-love, nor myself, embittered
by disappointment, jealousy, and other unworthy emotions--none of us,
I say, acted a heroic part from beginning to end. Mr. Butterell took
his hand away from my face, as I had demanded; but it became a fist and
came back.

I parried the blow and struck back at his face; but it was like
parrying a battering ram and striking a stone wall. It was the only
blow I struck in that fight, if fight it may be called. He was larger,
heavier, and quicker than myself, and soon I felt his fist crashing
between my eyes, and my world went out in a blinding flash of light. I
came to in a few moments, I think, and found myself in the lee scuppers
with Mabel bending over me, her face all sympathy and kindliness. I
could barely see it between my closing eyelids; but could also see
Mr. Butterell standing up to windward with Captain Merwin, laughingly
explaining his code of ethics. "Yes, sir," he was saying. "I consider
that there's less difference between your second mate and the dubs I
kicked forward than between myself and a captain. That goes, Captain
Merwin, or you can put me aboard the first inbound ship!"

I struggled to my feet and, pushing past Mabel, approached the two as
the captain answered, "Yes, yes, Mr. Butterell, I understand; but I am
sorry, very sorry. I had hoped--I hope there will be no more fighting."

"No, sir," I broke in rather insanely, "there'll be no more fighting
with fists, I promise you that. But let me say to you, sir," I faced
Mr. Butterell, "that there's less difference between you and a dead
man than there is between you and a captain. If you ever strike me
again, I'll kill you, if I have to knife you through your window while
you are asleep."

Then, as though it were a deathknell, four bells struck at the wheel.

I spoke loudly in my rage, and pain, and blindness--for I could not see
them now--and I know my words rang through the ship from end to end,
and must have been heard by the listening crew, for a few responsive
whoops came from forward. But also came a shivery "Oh, oh!" from Mabel,
and stern words from the captain.

"Tut, tut, Mr. Rogers!" he said. "That will do! You are setting a bad
example to the men. Go to your room, bathe your eyes, and get your
supper. If you cannot stand watch at eight bells, I will stand watch
for you; but no more of this talk of killing! I did not think it of
you!"

And, to the sound of Mr. Butterell's soft, derisive chuckling, he half
led, half pushed me into the companion to my room on the starboard side
of the passage. With the exception of the log desk in the mate's room,
the two apartments were similar, each with a window looking out on the
main deck, and another, over the berth opening into the alley. I could
not eat, and as I crawled blindly into the berth, like a bad boy sent
supperless to bed, and opened the window to let air in on my fevered
face, I could not help thinking how easy it would be to carry out my
threat. In imagination I did so; but I was not yet sane.

While few men pass through life without at least one sound thrashing
from schoolmate or fellow man, still fewer, I think, receive that
thrashing under such peculiarly humiliating conditions as those
attending mine, and fewer yet, at my age, know that vengeance,
properly disregarded, will take care of itself. So I fumed through
the dog-watch, listening to the hateful sound of the mate's voice--now
chatting with Mabel, again raised in a roaring behest to the men--and
to the still more hateful sound of Mabel's musical laughter at his
sallies, until seven bells, when he called the men to the pumps,
which, whether the ship leaks or not, are manned at this time of day.
Then the captain came with the steward, prescribed remedies from the
medicine chest, and gave me such fatherly, grieved, and reprehensive
admonishment as to irritate me past all silence and endurance.

"Look out, sir," I said at last, "that you don't get yours!"

"What do you mean, sir?" he asked sternly as he drew back from me. "Do
you threaten me, Mr. Rogers?"

"No, captain, I do not," I answered. "I mean that he has practically
threatened you. I heard him claim equality with you in your presence,
after picking this quarrel with me and then likening me to the
stowaways. I am your second mate. He will treat you the same, sir, when
it suits him."

"Nonsense, young man!"

"No nonsense about it, captain!" I raved. "There'll be trouble aboard
this ship yet, trouble that'll be none o' my making. Why didn't you
ship a Bengal tiger and be done with it? You could ha' got one cheaper
than a mate's pay for the passage."

"I begin to think you resent my shipping any kind of mate, except
yourself."

"Or why didn't you go to a drygoods store, if you wanted a ladykiller
to fool your daughter," I continued, forgetting the "sir" in my anger
and jealousy.

"My daughter? What do you mean, sir, by such reference to my daughter?"

"Oh, haven't you caught on yet, Captain Merwin?" I asked, as
recklessly and sarcastically as an unlicked schoolboy. "Not twelve
hours on board, and he not only knocks me out, but makes love over my
window to the girl I've worked and waited for since I saw her as a
child. What d'you s'pose, captain, that I've stuck to this ship for? To
have everything taken by him, and then remain satisfied? Well, I s'pose
I'll have to be satisfied. He's evidently just the kind of man she
likes. Some women prefer a brute to a man."

I paused for lack of breath, and Captain Merwin remained silent for
a moment or two; then he said quietly, "You are unfit to talk or to
think, much less to work. I will choose your men and stand your watch
until you are well. Meanwhile, go to sleep. I will apprise my daughter
of your opinion of her."

But as he left my room I felt that he would not need to. Through my
open window came Mr. Butterell's gleeful snicker and the soft murmur of
Mabel's voice as they moved away.

I was able to see in three days, and returned to duty, first offering
to Captain Merwin from my cooler and saner viewpoint an apology for
my manner, which he graciously accepted. But I made no apology to Mr.
Butterell, nor even a withdrawal of my threat, preferring to let it
hang over him as a possible deterrent. As it was a "watch and watch"
ship, we met only at eight bells, to report the course, distance
run, and the happenings of the last four hours, so that our strained
relations did not matter. And that these relations should not suffer
further straining, Captain Merwin, seeing me hopeless, decreed that the
mate's log desk be placed in the passage between our rooms, so that I
could enter up the log slate at the end of my watch without trespassing
upon his atmosphere.

As for Mabel, she had partaken of my blindness; she did not see me,
even when she looked at me. But this gave me a larger opportunity to
look at her, a dismal pleasure which I enjoyed to the utmost.

I cannot describe in detail the peculiar grace, and charm, and beauty
with which this girl appealed to me. All men know, and all men at some
time in their lives invest some one woman with such attributes, which,
perhaps, others cannot see. As a child, with yellow hair and sea-blue
eyes, Mabel Merwin had seemed to me a creature lent from Heaven to
lead me upward; now matured to perfect womanhood, her sea-blue eyes
the same, but her hair darkened to a golden bronze and her creamy
complexion to an orange tint by sun and wind, she was more than ever
one of another world, unable to descend to my own. For mine was a world
of outer and under darkness, of watch and worry, of work and dirt, of
profane, hateful, jealous, and murderous thought which, without knowing
it, I shared with the twin brothers. I could understand the baleful
glitter in their eyes when they looked at the mate; but, uninformed at
the time, nothing of the hungry adoration with which they regarded the
girl.

They were in separate watches, slept in separate forecastles, and did
not meet except in the dog-watches, when the crew--an exceptionally
fine and well-behaved body of men--policed them and kept them from
fighting. In other respects they did well. Poorly educated, yet they
were splendid material from which to develop the hardy, enduring
deep-water sailor, and they advanced rapidly.

Tom was in my watch, and received some tutelage from me; but I am
positive that Bill, in the other watch, got nothing from the mate
but kicks, cuffs, and abuse. Yet he seemed to absorb something from
his own brother; for, side by side, yet without speaking, they
acquired proficiency; until, when each knew the ropes, could box the
compass, steer, and go aloft to a skysail the captain called them aft,
complimented them, and placed them on the articles under pay. Then they
steered a regular trick, and drew clothing from the slop chest--also
sheath knives, which every skipper will deny to a bad crew and accord
to a good; for, worn outside all clothing, they are the handiest tools
aboard ship. Tom and Bill wore theirs as proudly as the ablest seaman
we had. But, with clothing alike, it was harder than ever to tell them
apart.

We were now down off the Cape and had begun the long eastering on the
fortieth parallel. Captain Merwin, as was usual with him when his
officers and crew had settled into place, had retired to his world of
books and study, leaving, except the working out of morning sights, the
navigation, and the handling of the ship, to the mate. Also, it seemed,
he had left to him the welfare of his daughter; for Mr. Butterell
devoted to her all the time he could spare from his work, and would
even remain up in his watch below to talk with her.

As for her, she seemed to enjoy his society, would talk with him by the
hour, watch him with interest as he would stand at the break of the
poop bellowing orders to the men, and respond to his inevitable smirk
with the sweetest of smiles. She gave me never a look, and, as the
captain seldom spoke to me now, and the mate not at all except in the
way of work, my sense of isolation had so grown upon me that I resolved
this passage would be my last with Captain Merwin.

In this rebellious mood I lay smoking in my berth one second dog-watch,
waiting for eight bells and listening to the mate's sallies and Mabel's
laughter through the open window of my room, and to an occasional sharp
word of command to Bill, who, at the wheel, was making hard work of
steering. Though it was southern summer and warm, a half-gale blew
from the starboard quarter, and this, with the following sea, would
have taxed the powers of a better helmsman than Bill. But, instead
of sending such a better man to relieve Bill, Mr. Butterell chose to
heckle the poor greenhorn until, as I could see by ranging the clouds
through my window, the ship was yawing frightfully, two points each
side of her course, and in danger of broaching to or going by the lee.
Some skippers and mates never learn that bad steering is not improved
by criticism, and when eight bells struck I went on deck, angry and
disgusted with the purblind bully.

I found the ship staggering along under an unnecessary and unwise press
of after canvas, the mate still berating Bill, who was desperately
heaving on the wheel, and Mabel seated in a deck chair on the weather,
or starboard, quarter. Following me along the lee alley came the twin
brother Tom to relieve Bill at the wheel; but before allowing him to
take the spokes I steadied the ship myself. Then I relinquished the
spokes to Tom and turned officially to relieve the mate.

But he had other matters on his mind. Collaring Bill before he could
give the course to his brother, he hurled him violently against the
lee quarter rail, then followed and drove him, with kicks and punches,
forward along the alley.

"Now, then, you long-jawed farmer," he shouted to the cowering man,
"up aloft wi' you! Up the lee rigging you go, and over the lee futtock
rigging, to the upper topsail yard, and out the lee yardarm! Hear me?
The lee upper topsail yardarm, where you keep a lookout till four
bells."

"Yes, sir," answered Bill in a curious throaty voice as he scrambled
into the rigging.

"And when the bells strike, you answer them, d'you hear? You sing out,
'One bell--all's well! Two bells--all's well!' and so on. Hear?"

"I hear," snarled Bill, "and by Gawd I'll have your life for this!"

Mr. Butterell's life for a second time had been threatened on board
that ship, and there was an explosiveness in the words, "I'll have your
life for this!" that indicated their sincerity. Then followed a volley
of village billingsgate as Bill made the hard climb on the slackened
rigging, and Mabel rose from her seat; but the mate's answer silenced
Bill, and she resumed it.

"Here!" he said, picking up Bill's knife, which had evidently jolted
out of its sheath in the fracas. "This is what you want? I'll put it
right here, on the house over my window. You can knife me when I'm
asleep, and save your friend the trouble." Then he placed the knife
carefully within the covering board of the house, and came aft with his
smirk, strongly visible in the moonlight.

I was standing beside Tom watching his steering--for he was getting as
nervous over it as his brother--and directly in front of Mabel's chair.
But I was not yet in charge of the deck.

"Mr. Butterell," said the girl calmly as he approached, "I must ask you
not to arouse the men to such language as I have just been compelled to
listen to. I am not accustomed to it."

The smirk left his face and it took on a scowl as he realized my
presence. "Why, Miss Merwin," he stammered. "I didn't suppose--"

"That is all, Mr. Butterell!" she interrupted. "I do not care to argue."

"Course due east," he growled, turning to me.

"Due east, sir," I answered.

"And keep that mutt aloft till four bells. If he fails to answer the
bells, keep him aloft the whole watch."

"Is that all, sir? Is the watch relieved?"

"Watch is relieved, all right. No need o' mustering and counting this
moonlight night. You have the deck now. Watch out!"

"Yes, sir," I answered; then, stepping into the weather alley, I
sent my voice forward, "Weather main- and cro'-jack clew-garnets and
buntlines," I shouted, "and come aft here, some o' you, and take in
this spanker!"

"What are you taking in the spanker for?" asked the mate as I resumed
my position beside Tom, ready to aid him if necessary.

"Do you want charge of the deck again, sir?" I answered. "It's one
man's job."

"Leave the spanker on her. Haul up your clews, if you like," he said.
Then he began a short pacing back and forth before the wheel, evidently
working himself into a rage that was based on the girl's rebuff. He
continued this pacing until the men, under the boatswain of the watch,
had hauled up the weather clews, which allowed the wind to impinge
upon the foresail. Then, seeing that Tom made easier work of the
steering--even though, because of the spanker, he steered with the
wheel nearly hard up--Mr. Butterell was ready for an explosion.

"You look out, young fellow!" he said, halting me as I moved toward the
weather alley. "I'll take the conceit out o' you yet!"

I looked him squarely in the eyes. I do not know that Mabel's rebuke
had heartened me. I only remembered that I had lost her regard, that I
had lost my skipper's good will, and that the last five years of work
and effort, as far as advancement was concerned, had been wasted.

"Take care, sir," I said, quietly, "and do not forget the conditions
under which I have allowed you to live this long!"

Then, in a cold rage, I turned my back on him and took my place at the
forward end of the alley, where I could stand my watch in touch with
both ends of the ship. He did not follow, and soon I heard him talking
amicably with Mabel.

I did not look aft, as I could gauge Tom's steering by the swing of the
fore yard against the few stars showing in the strong moonlight, and I
noticed that the men forward were seeking sheltered and shady spots to
doze away the watch--as is always permitted in easy ships--and that the
lookout on the forecastle deck was pacing back and forth, wide awake.
All was well with the ship, and with me, except for the irritating
conversation on the quarter.

The talk continued until three bells had struck--and with each
striking of the bell Bill aloft had obediently answered--then the mate
shouldered his way past me and went to his room, leaving the girl still
seated in the chair. I did not go aft again until nearly four bells,
when I went to take the reading of the patent log at the taffrail. As
I passed the girl she half rose, as though to speak to me; then, as I
moved sullenly on, sank back in her chair. A glance into the binnacle
showed me the ship on her course, and a glance at Tom showed him with
his left shoulder braced against a spoke, steering by easing the wheel
down and painfully heaving it up. I looked aloft at the swelling
canvas, noticed that Bill sprawled over the lee upper topsail yard,
and saw that nothing could be done in the way of bracing the yards.
The spanker should have come in; for, with the ship griping like this,
she would have broached to in ten seconds if Tom lost his grip on the
wheel. But the mate had forbidden it, and I let it stand.

I took the reading of the log, and again passed stiffly before Mabel,
going forward again by the weather alley, down the steps, and into the
companionway to the desk in the passage, where I jotted down on the log
slate the happenings of the watch. I could hear Mr. Butterell snoring
heavily in his room on the lee, or port, side, and, wondering at his
utterly nerveless makeup in being able to go to sleep so readily after
a fit of anger, I closed the slate and turned toward the door.

At this moment a hoarse, guttural, hair-raising scream rang out,
followed instantly by another in a higher key, and I sprang out,
looking wildly about me for the cause. Mabel lay prone on the deck at
the foot of the lee steps and I reached her at a bound. There was no
blood nor marks, nothing to show what had hurt her and caused her to
scream, and I stood up, bewildered. The men forward had wakened, and
some were coming aft haltingly. I called to them, to question them,
when out of the companion door burst the captain in his pajamas.

"What's happened?" he asked excitedly. "My girl screamed! What is it?"

"I do not know, sir," I answered. "I heard her scream from the log
desk, and found her here."

He examined the unconscious girl, then said, "She has only fainted, I
think. Call the mate and the steward. We must get her below."

For the first time since Mr. Butterell had joined the ship I opened the
door of his room and looked in. He lay face up in his berth beneath the
open window, with the handle of a sheath knife sticking up from his
chest. It had been driven home, and as I looked, horror-stricken at
the sight, four bells struck at the wheel, and Bill's voice came from
aloft, "Four bells, and all's well!"

Twenty minutes later I was locked in my room, charged by the excited
Captain Merwin with murdering the mate. "Find the motive; find the
man!" he had stormed. He had heard me threaten again through his window
as he was undressing for bed, and nothing that I could say as to
another man's threatening, too, had the slightest effect. His daughter
had evidently seen, and had fainted from the shock. When she recovered
she would, no doubt, so testify.

With the boatswain standing my watch, I sat there until midnight; then,
as the other boatswain relieved him, I crawled into my berth, but not
to sleep. The problem would not permit it; for it was a problem that
would not solve. But, in my casting about for a solution, I was forced
to exonerate Bill, the only man besides myself with the "motive." For
how could Bill, whom I had seen on the yard just before going below,
descend to the lee alley, knife the mate through the window, and get
aloft in time to answer at four bells?

Mentally counting my steps along the alley and down to the passage,
the half-minute or so while I was engaged at the log slate, and the
succeeding interval of time between his death scream and Bill's call
from aloft, I found it incredible. Even had he been able so to time his
descent by any means as to reach the window before I had closed the
log slate, still the men had wakened at the scream, and one or more
would have seen him before he could have got out of sight behind the
cro'-jack on his way aloft. As for Tom, who also had a motive, though
a lesser one, he was out of the question. There were no beckets nor
lanyards with which to secure the wheel, and had he dropped it the
canvas would have been in ribbons before he could reach the window.
The steward, who slept off the forward cabin, had come out, rubbing
his eyes, palpably stupid from recent sleep; and he had no motive--the
mate had liked him. When I had sprung on deck the strong moonlight had
shown it clear of men as far forward as the main hatch, from which a
few were arousing themselves. The murderer could not have run forward.

Who else? I asked myself. Mabel? She could have run forward by the lee
alley after I had gone down by the other; but why? She had no motive
for the crime, and if she had why would she have chosen such a moment,
when discovery was inevitable? Then, too, it required strength beyond
hers to drive a sheath knife to the handle into the body of a man.
No, Mabel was also out of the question; but there came to my mind the
equally disquieting query, What was she doing on the main deck, or in
the alley near the mate's room, at that time of night? This I could not
answer; but at daylight it was answered for me.

Captain Merwin opened the door of my room, and I rolled out of my
berth. "Mr. Rogers," he said, "I owe you an apology. You did not kill
the mate. She has recovered and explained."

"Who did, sir?" I asked.

"One of the twin stowaways, she does not know which. I have ironed them
both in the 'tween deck; but they accuse each other."

"Brotherly love with a vengeance!" I commented. "But I cannot see how
either could have done it."

"My daughter saw one of them at the window. Here she is."

Mabel, her glorious hair disheveled, her face pale and drawn, her eyes
tear stained, pushed into the room, and incontinently fell into my
arms, her own around my neck.

"Oh, it's over!" she said brokenly. "It's over at last--and the strain,
and the worry! I could not have stood it much longer! I knew last night
that I couldn't; but you wouldn't let me speak!"

"Mabel, Mabel!" said her father. "Steady yourself, my girl!"

"Papa, go away!" she said. "I want to talk with Mr. Rogers, and you
could not understand--you haven't understood, at all."

He paused a moment; but she straightened herself before him and pointed
to the door. He left us together.

"And you did not understand, either," she said, turning to me. "You
thought I enjoyed his conversation, and his society, and his maddening
attentions. Why couldn't you see? It was only to quiet him, to flatter
his insufferable vanity, and keep him from further assault upon you. I
knew--I knew by your face that first day out that you would kill him if
he struck you again; and then--then the consequences! You had warned
him, threatened, and nothing would have saved you. They would have
hanged you--and what should I have done then?"

"And you did this for me, Mabel? Do you really care for me?"

"Since I first saw you," she said, her face flaming with color. "I
should not tell you now," she added, "only for what has happened; for I
heard your opinion of me that same evening."

"Then you also heard, Mabel," I said, as I took her again in my arms,
"that I have loved you, and waited for you, since you were a child."

"Yes," she answered simply. "Perhaps, after all, that is why I am
telling you now. I might have told you last night, and followed you
down to the main deck; but when I looked in you were busy, and I went
to the lee steps to go back and wait for you. Then I saw him at the
window, and--and I heard--and screamed. I must have fainted, and when I
wakened a little while ago Papa told me you had killed him--and I knew
better."

"God love you, Mabel!" I said. "But what roused you last night--to tell
me--to follow me?"

"What he threatened after you had warned him again. He purposed to
strike you again on the first pretext, and allow you to attempt his
life; then to have you imprisoned for murderous assault. He did not
believe you would actually kill him; but I knew you would. I wanted to
beg you not to try, to be patient, to hold your temper."

"Had you asked me that, Mabel," I said, "I think I should."

After breakfast that morning the body of the mate was given sea burial;
then there followed a curious court of inquiry at the mizzen hatch--a
court in which the two accused prisoners were also witnesses against
each other, and in which the testimony of the only positive witness
was invalidated by lack of identification. Mabel could only say that
she had seen one of them draw his head and shoulders out of the mate's
window just as his agonized scream had smitten her ears, and look into
her face as she peered at him from the head of the steps. But she could
not tell one from the other. The men had heard the screams; but had
seen nothing but myself, bending over the girl.

Bill's testimony was direct and short. He did not change it, nor
attempt to qualify it. The sheath knife was his, he admitted, and it
had not been touched by him. On the yard he had seen me go forward and
into the companion; he had seen the girl follow, peer in at me, and go
to the lee steps; and he had seen Tom leave the wheel when the girl had
entered the alley, hurry along the lee alley, pick up the knife, reach
into the window, and leave it there. He had heard the two screams, had
seen me emerge and bend over the girl after she had fallen down the
steps, had seen the captain arrive, and when four bells had struck he
had answered and come down; for his punishment had ended.

Tom had more to say. First, he had seen Bill drop from the bight of a
lee cro'-jack buntline to the house just where the knife was placed.
He had seen him pick up the knife, jump to the alley, and after the
mate had screamed spring back to the house and disappear behind the
cro'-jack as he climbed the buntline. He had watched him farther aloft
as he appeared on the cro'-jack yard, and had seen him go up the lee
topmast rigging to the upper yard from which, when he had struck four
bells, he had answered.

"You inhuman pair of scoundrels!" spluttered Captain Merwin
indignantly. "No matter which is guilty--for a twin brother to swear
away the life of the other! It is incredible, unheard of! Why didn't
you speak at once--either of you--both of you?"

To this they each coolly announced a satisfaction with the death of the
mate and a disinterestedness in the fate of the other as to minimize
their responsibility.

I now further clouded the case by my own speculations; that Tom could
not have left the wheel without the ship's broaching to, and that Bill
had not the time in which to descend and return, even had he been able
to choose the exact moment. But to this Tom gave immediate answer.

"Can you remember the time it took, sir," he asked me, "from your
lookin' at him aloft to your hearin' him sing out at four bells?"

"About four minutes," I said, after a moment's thought.

"Now, I'll prove it, sir, that it was plenty of time. I s'pose the lee
buntlines haven't been touched since then, have they?"

The boatswains testified that they had not, and Tom requested that
his irons be removed for his demonstration. He was freed, and stepped
toward the weather alley. "Now, I'll go aloft, Mr. Rogers," he said,
"to the same place on the yard as he was, and you take the same place
on the quarter where you was when you seed him up there. Then you start
forward, just as you did, and I'll do just what he did."

The captain nodded assent to this, and I went aft to the log while Tom
danced aloft to the lee topsail yard. "All ready, sir!" he called.
"Start now!"

I faithfully reproduced my steps along the alley, down to the main
deck, and into the passage, where I killed time at the log desk. As I
turned to leave it I heard Tom call, "Now it is, sir!" from the mate's
window, and, stepping out on deck, I went through the pantomime of
leaning over Mabel, talking with the captain, and going to the mate's
room to call him. Before I had reached the door, however, Tom's voice
came from aloft. "Four bells!" he shouted. "All's well!"

I came out. The captain was holding his watch, and Tom was leisurely
descending.

"You were slightly mistaken, Mr. Rogers," said the captain. "He did
it in less than three minutes. He slid down the middle buntlines of
the treesails, took time enough at the window, and went up hand over
hand forward of the cro'-jack, then up the topmast rigging. He has
proved his innocence by proving his brother guilty. But--God help such
brothers!"

"And Gawd help you, you old fool," yelled Bill, as he waved his
manacled hands at the skipper, "if I get out o' this fix! I didn't kill
him, though I meant to, and I'll kill you yet as sure as I meant to
kill him!"

"Down below with him, Mr. Rogers!" said the captain, and I took the
frenzied Bill to the 'tween deck, where I lashed him to a stanchion,
still raving and threatening, not only the captain, but his brother Tom
and myself.

"For it's you," he raved, "that give him a chance to show off his
climbin'! What if there was time? D'ye think I'd ha' been fool enough,
up aloft where I could see, to come down on that job with the girl
puttin' herself in the way? He was on the poop, and couldn't see where
she was."

Though I made him no answer, I confess that this aspect of the case
troubled me as we sailed on toward Sydney. I said no more about it,
though at the trial of Bill at Sydney I introduced it in my testimony.
It had little weight. A captain's preconceived opinion of a sailor's
guilt often has more influence in court than solid evidence to the
contrary, and Bill was convicted of murder in the first degree on the
testimony of his brother and the captain's story of the climb.

We went to sea before he was sentenced; I as first mate, and Mabel as
my promised wife. And, though the rest of the crew had deserted the
murder ship, Tom went with us; for he wanted, he said, to get as far
away from his brother, dead or alive, as was possible. And with his
brother in limbo Tom was really a changed character, lively, anxious to
please, and ambitious to learn. He seemed grateful to me, and accorded
me his confidence, showing me his sheath knife one day with its point
broken off.

"For I want no murder in mine, sir!" he said. "I know I've got a bad
temper, and I know these knives can go deep. No hangman's knots for me,
Mr. Rogers! Say, sir, will you show me how to make one?"

Not without repugnance did I make the grisly exhibit for him in the end
of a rope. He practiced it until proficient, and then, gleefully and
grinning, made hangman's nooses in ropes' ends until the men, with the
suasion of the forecastle, changed his mood.

The change seemed permanent. His unpleasant grin gave way to the old
and equally unpleasant scowl and nervous manner. He grew irritable,
and one morning was so offensively familiar with Mabel and so insolent
to Captain Merwin and myself that I ordered him aloft in his watch
below for punishment, giving him as a task the making up of gaskets on
the mizzen. Then I paid him no attention until four bells, when the
helmsman, looking aloft as he struck the bell, sang out, "Great God,
sir! Look!"

Tom, neatly noosed with a hangman's knot under his ear, was swaying at
the end of an upper mizzentopsail yard gasket which depended from the
place on the yard where his brother had clung the night of the murder.

I had begun to dread the sound of "four bells." This division of the
watch is at two, six, and ten o'clock, night or day. At six in the
evening I had threatened the life of the mate; at ten in the evening he
had been killed; and at ten in the morning Tom had hanged himself.

What fatal or momentous event was to happen some day or night at two
o'clock, I could not imagine; but an incident that occurred near the
end of the homeward run led me to hope that the account had been
settled. We were holystoning the decks, and a man working his stone
near the wheel one afternoon found an obstruction in the deck, which he
pried out and handed to me.

It was a small, flat, triangular piece of steel, sharpened on one edge,
the end of a sheath-knife blade. It had been driven or pressed into the
deck by some powerful force, then broken off, exactly as though used as
a brace between a spoke and the deck to hold the wheel steady while the
helmsman left it for a moment or two. As I came to this conclusion the
man at the wheel struck four bells, and I tossed it overboard.

I said nothing about it to the captain or to Mabel; but news from
Sydney that had beaten us by steamer to New York could not be
concealed. On that day, at ten in the morning, Sydney time, his brother
Bill had been hanged in the jail yard.