A mile away a thing crawled out of a cave--a mindless creature in the
form of a man, a disorganized organism that looked into the morning sky
with lightless eyes and meaningless smile. Emaciated and begrimed, with
hair and beard to his shoulders, clad in what had once been shirt and
trousers, but were now a flimsy covering of rags, he presented but one
human attribute beyond his meaningless smile: the articulate voice.

He began to move, in a swift walk that soon increased to a jog trot and
then to a run. Straight as a path may go, over rocks, hills, and marshy
ground, down the declivity to the sea, went this smiling creature,
pausing at times to look into the sky and murmur, "Zenie, come back!"

There was something yellow on the beach, right in his path, and at the
same swift run he approached it. He stood silently over the quiet form
of the dead girl, looking at it with smile unchanged, but with the
beginning of expression flitting and twitching over his gaunt features.
Then he stooped and turned the body over, bringing to view the pale,
damp face.

"Zenie, come back!" he breathed softly. "Zenie, come back!"

The girl's chest rose convulsively, and sank, then rose again with a
deeper inhalation, and the staring eyes closed.

The mindless thing stood erect, with a face suffused by a rush of
blood, staggered, and turned; then, in a deep, sonorous voice,
declaimed:

    "'Shall lure it back to cancel half a Line,
        Nor all your Tears wash out a Word of it.'"

It was the finish of the quatrain begun by Bridge, and interrupted by
the blow of the cane.

"What?" he continued, as he looked down on the faintly breathing figure
of the girl. "Miss Munson! What--what is it? Where are we? We were in
the alleyway a minute ago. What has happened? Tell me! Where's the
ship?"

The girl's eyes opened, and a faint smile came to her face.

"What is it?" he insisted, stooping down and taking her cold, wet
hands. "Miss Munson, what has happened? We're ashore, and you're all
wet! Have you been overboard? You said you could swim! Why, there's the
ship now, at anchor! They're putting off with a boat! But why? Tell me,
Miss Munson! What does it mean? I've grown a beard! Why--tell me! What
is it? Zaza, tell me!"

The cold, wet hands of the girl closed gently on his big, bony fingers.
"Not Zaza!" she whispered. "Zenie! I am Zenie! I know I am!"