IV

                         "_I'm Your Mechanic_"


On The following morning, Riley went to the telecasting station ahead
of Ward to be certain that no one was there. It was just possible,
the little man told him, that some of the Committee members might be
waiting to catch their unwanted speaker.

In Wales City, once, Ward had been caught and locked up in an
Institution for eighteen months before he managed to escape. He didn't
want that to happen again, especially now that Sue was working with him.

Riley reported that the telecasting station was deserted, and Ward made
his talk. It was similar to the one he had made the previous day and
unquestionably had the same effect. While they were returning to the
museum, they encountered two Committee members, Mr. Jackson and Mr.
Waine.

"Pretend you don't see them," Ward cautioned. "If they stop us we'll
have to fight." He said scornfully, "They don't even know how to fight."

"I don't either," Riley admitted.

Ward stroked his little mustache.

"Suppose you don't, at that. My father taught me. Handed down from
generation to generation, you see. Look. No, don't look, now. They're
watching us.

"Double up your fist, and if they say anything take the guy on the
left. Wallop him on the chin, then in the stomach, then on the button
again. He won't know how to hit back."

Mr. Waine hailed them at that moment.

"Good morning, Riley. I suppose you, also, are looking for that
scoundrel, John Ward. You and your companion."

He peered uncertainly at Ward.

"Why--uh--_you_ are John Ward, aren't you? Young man," he said, puffing
out his chest, "I must inform you that our citizens are very distressed
at the uncouth telecasts you are making. Very distressed, sir. It is my
painful duty to apprehend you.

"And you, Riley Ashton, should be ashamed of yourself, consorting with
such a character. Your father will be very put out, Riley. I shall
report you to the Committee for such action as they deem necessary."

"You take the windbag," Ward said to Riley. "He's the smaller."

Riley doubled up his fists and, with his heart pounding wildly,
approached Mr. Waine. As he moved forward he heard the sudden splat of
Ward's fist on Mr. Jackson's chin. Then Riley struck the first blow of
his life. Deliberately and with malice aforethought he walloped Mr.
Waine on the button.

The crunch of his fist against Mr. Waine's chin filled Riley with a
wonderful sense of delight. He lowered his arm and punched awkwardly at
Mr. Waine's middle. Mr. Waine doubled up with a grunt which, for some
funny reason, was like music in Riley's ears.

He drew back his right arm, crouching until his fist was almost at
his heel, and swung a roundhouse blow to Mr. Waine's chin. Mr. Waine
suddenly buckled at the knees and dropped to a horizontal position,
supported only by his float belt.

"Say, Riley, lad," John Ward chuckled, "you're coming right along."

"Did I do all right?" Riley asked panting with excitement.

"Pretty good for an amateur," Ward said judiciously. "Need a little
polish. I'll teach you that. Now we'd better get going."