But when they were ready to take off he discovered that the linings on
two of the port tubes were burned out. Matter-of-factly he told how he
worked for sixty-eight hours without sleep repairing the damaged tubes.

Once they were again under way, Riley divided his time between handling
the engines, nursing Sue and caring for his insects. Within a week
the girl was well on the way to recovery from her fever. As for the
insects, they thrived on Riley's attention. He kept them well fed and
watered, and over the cages he placed a high frequency oscillator,
showering them with the vibrations.

"To kill the disease germs," he explained to Ward. "It won't hurt my
little pets and it won't keep them from biting as viciously as ever."

February 4, 2884, is a memorable date. On that day, Riley Ashton
released insect pests on an indolent world that had not known such
things for hundreds of years. Before they landed Ward cruised the
Rocket over the American continent.

Riley turned loose well over a million of the mosquito-like insects
to breed and bite and make a nuisance of themselves. He turned loose
an extra load over American City, and kept out a few dozen for
experimental purposes. These he put in a box which he slipped inside
his tunic.

Ward carefully lowered the ship once again into its berth in the
American City Museum.

"I didn't get to see nearly enough of Venus," he said thoughtfully. He
fingered his mustache and watched Riley with a curious expression in
his eyes. Then, he blurted out, "I'm going back. Are you going with me?"

"Why, of course," Riley said in surprise. "That's what I've been
planning, just as soon as we can make some revisions in our equipment.
We didn't even start in to examine that planet. First, I've got to go
home to see my folks. When I get back we'll commence our preparations
for the next trip."

While he was strapping on his float belt Sue was watching him. Abruptly
he leaned over and kissed her.

"And another thing. Before we go back," he continued, "you and I are
going to get married."

Before Sue could say anything he was gone down the hall and out the
door.

"Well--he didn't even wait for my answer," the girl said.

John Ward laughed.

"Didn't need to, the way you kissed him. He's a great guy."

Mr. Ashton, Mrs. Ashton, and Aunt Betty were listening to some music by
the American City Telecasting Station when Riley entered the door. He
yelled to announce his arrival and grabbed his mother about the waist.

"Sh!" Mr. Ashton said. "This is an excellent program."