An automek snapped open the door to the museum, and Riley went inside.
Just within the entrance, on a table, there was a book in which
visitors were expected to write their names. With the electric pen
provided, Riley signed his name on the plastic sheet and added the date.

He regarded the previous entries with much curiosity. Apparently, the
last visitor to the museum had been there on the fifteenth of January,
the previous year. He had signed himself John Ward. But before that
entry there had been no signatures for well over three hundred years.

Of course, this did not necessarily mean that there had been no other
visitors. It was only a rare person of the twenty-ninth century who
could either read or write. Riley had learned the accomplishments as a
means of passing away the lonely hours.

In the city library, where he spent much time, there were some
excellent records on reading and writing. This ability was one of the
things which made people regard Riley as "queer."

Riley speculated for some time as to who John Ward might be. He hadn't
supposed that anyone else in American City was interested in a museum,
or for that matter could write. Riley had thought, rather proudly,
that he was unique in his ability. And here in front of his eyes was
definite evidence that someone else could read and write.

"Must be from another city," Riley decided. "Someone who was forced to
leave his home because the automeks quit working."

Dismissing John Ward from his mind he wandered down one of the halls.
The first exhibit he came to was pictures of extinct insects. He read
the descriptions aloud, his words echoing noisily through the lonely
halls.

"The mosquito was known for hundreds of years to be a carrier of
disease. Not only was it a carrier, but it was a nuisance because of
its habit of sucking blood and leaving irritating welts on its host.
The hum of its tiny, fast-moving wings was synonymous with discomfort.
Fortunately the last of these pests was exterminated in the year two
thousand three hundred and fifty-five."

The next picture and description was of a grasshopper, extinct, so the
legend explained, since 2318. The grasshopper was characterized as a
destroyer of crops.

"Furthermore," ran the description with unintentional irony, "the
grasshopper never made provision for its future. It existed only for
its own amusement."

"Hmph!" Riley said. "Just like people."

Passing along the hall, away from the insect exhibit, he came upon
a number of statues in company with pictures of flying machines.
These latter were similar to the giant, robot-controlled, intercity
transportation vehicles of his own day.

Riley began to read the history of the men whose statues were on
exhibit and found himself entranced with the accounts of the early, and
for that matter the only, attempts at inter-planetary travel.

"Rufus Smith," he read, "was the first man to attempt a trip to the
planet Venus. Having made three trial trips about the moon, this
intrepid adventurer took off in his Smith-Wickham Rocket at noon, July
ninth, two thousand one hundred and sixteen, with the intention of
rocketing to Venus. According to his radio reports Smith was making
excellent progress until, on the two hundred and sixty-third day of his
flight, his ship apparently exploded."