II

                        _The Planet Travelers_


Young Riley was right, although he didn't fully understand to what
extent. The deterioration of the automeks was slow, but in certain
places, especially in damp climates, they were beginning to quit.

During the years from 2866 to 2870, at least half a dozen metropolitan
cities were abandoned, simply because the machinery which supported the
populace ceased functioning. When the inhabitants of those cities felt
the pangs of hunger they took the easiest way out.

They migrated to more fortunate cities, where the climate had not
caused a breakdown in the machinery. The people began to double up in
the homes, throwing an extra burden on the automeks of those areas.

No one appreciated the true significance of the migration. No one faced
the fact that eventually all the machines all over the world would
stop. It is doubtful that the people realized such a crisis could occur.

Only Riley, with a perception far beyond his years, seemed to have any
true glimpse of the future. Or perhaps he was the only one who offered
any comment on it. And he didn't very often. He found that his ideas
brought him only grief at the hands of his distracted and apologetic
parents. Riley definitely was not in tune with his time.

Even before he was ten years old he was known in his neighborhood as
"that queer child," the one who insisted on trying to make things. He
had no playmates. Mothers forbade their children to play with him. His
language, they said, was vulgar. He frequently used the word "work".

His ideas of fun were intolerable and punishment seemed to have little
effect on him. There was some talk of having him confined to an
Institution, but since Mr. Ashton's luck with the dice was consistently
bad and he was constantly on the Committee which governed such measures
nothing came of the talk.

Naturally, Riley was lonely. He wanted company, but when he approached
any of the neighborhood children in an effort to join their play they
immediately ran away from him. As a consequence his play was solitary.
Perhaps this is why, in later life, he was so easily pleased with
commendatory words from the few persons who did become intimate with
him.

On Riley's twelfth birthday--that would be the year 2872--he discovered
the American City Museum. He came upon it suddenly, during one of his
wandering trips about the city. By that time, Mr. and Mrs. Ashton had
given up all efforts to control his activities since that involved an
unpleasant expenditure of energy. Even Aunt Betty talked less about
"our duty to the child."

Consequently Riley was left to his own devices most of the time. He
investigated the city, giving particular attention to the workings of
the various factories and the activities around the warehouses. It was
easy enough for Riley to wander about the streets.

He had the float belt which supported his weight and locomotion from
place to place was accomplished simply by tuning in the proper
loop attractor station. These attractor stations, placed at regular
intervals about the city, were operated on the electro-magnetic
principle.