Aunt Betty's double chins quivered. "Riley, you should show more
consideration for others. You make so much noise. Children, these
days," Aunt Betty complained, "don't have the proper respect for their
elders."

"Don't you realize that I've been gone for nearly two years?" Riley
shouted, setting his mother down.

Mrs. Ashton smoothed her hair.

"So you have. Did you enjoy yourself, dear?"

Riley stood in the middle of the room and yelled.

"I've been to Venus."

"Riley," said Mr. Ashton sternly, "do you have to shout so loud?"

"Venus? _Venus?_" Aunt Betty shook her head. "I don't think I've been
there." She remained a few seconds in thought and then looked up
brightly. "Have the automeks in Venus City quit?"

Riley didn't answer. He went to the other side of the room, where his
movements couldn't be seen, and took the box of insects from his tunic.
He opened the box, watched them hum merrily out and then sat back to
await developments.

After a moment Aunt Betty waved her hand briskly in front of her eyes.
A moment later, Mr. Ashton slapped viciously at the top of his bald
head.

"Drat!" he said.

Mrs. Ashton stared at the buzzing little pests.

"What are those things?"

"Some pets I brought back from Venus," Riley said.

"If they have those things there," commented Aunt Betty, waving her
hand futilely, "I'm never going to Venus."

Mrs. Ashton looked pitifully at Riley.

"Riley, how could you?"

An insect was drilling a hole in Aunt Betty's elbow. As she watched it
two big tears began to trickle down her fat cheeks. Finally she could
endure the drilling no longer and she made a half-hearted and wholly
ineffectual swat at the insect.

"Drat!" Mr. Ashton slapped his bald head once more, but missed his
tormentor.

For fully thirty minutes the music of the telecast was punctuated by
the steadily increasing number of slaps, each one of which was more
violent than the preceding one. Riley sat and waited patiently.

"They're hard to hit," said Mr. Ashton at last.

He managed to stand it for another ten minutes and then abruptly
switched on his float belt and disappeared from the room. From the
rear of the house came a great pounding and ripping, and an occasional
vehement, "Drat!"

This continued for nearly an hour. When he returned to the room he was
carrying in his hand a makeshift swatter, with which he began pursuing
the insects about the room. Finally, he caught and killed one.

"_There!_" said Mr. Ashton with a satisfied smirk. "I guess that's the
way to fix them." He held up his swatter proudly for all to see.

To Riley's knowledge the swatter was the first thing Mr. Ashton had
made during his entire life. It was a triumph for Riley.

The television screen glowed. In it appeared the images of a number of
the Committee members, including Mr. Waine. Mr. Ashton paused in his
complacent contemplation of the swatter.

"We're not supposed to have a Committee meeting today."