V

                        _The Cycle of Progress_


Riley Ashton's journal, which is now preserved in the archives of the
American City Museum, is a comprehensive and eloquent account of this
pioneer trip to Venus.

In one place he wrote, "There is little doubt that ours was the first
space ship to land on this planet." He was probably referring to the
earlier attempts by Rufus Smith, Billy Fenton, and others to reach
Venus.

And again, "It rains most of the time, varying in intensity from what
is scarcely more than a mist to torrential outbursts. During the latter
it is impossible to travel, because of poor visibility.

"Even in the brief intervals when there is no precipitation it is
difficult to see more than a few hundred feet because the only light
we have is that which is filtered through the dense clouds perpetually
blanketing the planet. We live in a continual semi-twilight."

On the sixth day (earth time) after they landed on Venus, he recorded
with elation, "We have found our mosquitoes. Or perhaps it is better to
say that they found us. The rains ceased for several hours, and we were
thus enabled to penetrate the jungle for some miles beyond our former
exploratory trips.

"John, as usual, was leading with Sue behind him and I brought up the
rear. We came out into a large, swampy clearing. The water was covered
by a steaming grayish scum. By this time we were wading up to our knees.

"Almost immediately after we entered the swamp, swarm upon swarm of
winged insects, millions of them, rose from the scum and attacked
us. The hum of their wings was very audible. They settled over us
like a winged blanket and began drilling with their vicious, little,
needle-like mouths.

"I struck out at them futilely. At the same time I was filled with a
great sense of elation. These insects were what we had come to Venus
to catch.

"John stumbled and splashed to my side. His face was already beginning
to swell from the numerous bites.

"'Ought to get out of here,' he said. 'Come back when we're better
prepared.'

"We retreated through the rank jungle. The vicious little insects
followed us for several hundred yards before we were released from
their torture.

"Strictly speaking, they are not the same insect which was known as a
mosquito on Earth and which is now extinct, but I should think they
would serve my purpose admirably. I feel certain that they are much
more vicious than any real mosquito ever was."

Riley also relates in his journal how Sue Ward was stricken with fever,
unquestionably brought on by the poison injected by the mosquito-like
insects. Fortunately by that time they had collected about as many
of the insects as they could take care of, and began immediate
preparations for their return to the earth.

Riley wrote in his journal that he was certain Sue would not live
unless they could get her away from the fetid Venusian climate. She was
desperately ill.

"It was then," he stated naively, "that I learned how much I truly
loved Sue Ward--how much she meant to me. I felt that if she were to
die nothing else would ever matter to me again."