October 8, 2866, was a memorable day for young Riley Ashton. It was his
sixth birthday. It was the day he got his first good look at American
City. Also he learned a new word, a thrillingly naughty word, and Aunt
Betty came to live with the Ashtons.

At that time it was the custom all over the world to keep the children
secluded in their own homes, or at least in their own neighborhoods,
until they were six years old. On his sixth birthday the child,
escorted by one or the other of the parents, was taken for his first
tour of the city in which he lived.

Excursions of greater length, to other cities and sometimes to other
continents, were planned for future birthdays. Like many another
convention this custom can not be explained. It was simply the way
things were.

So, on the day Riley Ashton became six years old, his mother, foregoing
her own pleasurable pursuits, devoted the day to his entertainment. In
giving Riley so much of her time Mrs. Ashton felt that she was making a
real sacrifice.

She had seen American City on several occasions, and she found it
boring. It was much more enjoyable, everyone thought, to remain in the
leisure of one's own home. There, one might gossip with friends by
television, or visit with one's club through the same medium or, if one
preferred, listen to a musical program or see a good story simply by
tuning in the American City Telecasting Station.

"I suppose this is one of the responsibilities of being a mother," said
Mrs. Ashton to her husband, "but I do think, Charles, that you might
take Riley for half the day."

"I can't," Mr. Ashton argued, rubbing his bald head. "I have an
important Council meeting this afternoon."

"Oh," Mrs. Ashton rejoined vaguely. "But you give such a tremendous
amount of time to the Council. Isn't this the third time, this year?"

At that moment, young Riley appeared in the door. He was a tall sturdy
child, browned by sunlamps and dressed in the conventional short, khaki
tunic and pants. About his middle was strapped a new float belt, a
simple device which opposed the magnetic field of the earth.

"Look at me," he commanded proudly, and floated about the room
supported in a semi-horizontal position by the belt. "Boy, this is a
swell new belt."

"Glad you like it, son," said Mr. Ashton. "Happy birthday, and run
along with your mother. I've got to tune in the Council meeting. We're
appointing a committee."

"If you must, I suppose you must," Mrs. Ashton said. "I do hope you
win, this time. You are so cross when you lose."

Riley winked one large blue eye.

"Don't roll any boxcars, Pop."

Mr. Ashton held up his crossed fingers and winked back at his son.

Riley and his mother did not meet many people. It was rare that anyone
except an occasional traveler was seen on the streets. But the city
was alive with the hustle and bustle of the automeks. The automeks
were machines of various types and functions, endowed at the time of
manufacture with the necessary mechanical brains to perform a certain
ordered set of operations.

Riley was not particularly interested in them. He had seen many types
of automeks before. They performed all the tasks about the homes,
leaving the people free to enjoy themselves in conformance with
whatever custom decreed as enjoyable.