Mr. Ashton pressed a button, and the figures disappeared from the
television screen.

"What is it this time?"

"Well, he's saying--" Mrs. Ashton colored delicately. "You know--that
_word_. And he thinks he ought to be allowed to--to make things like an
automek. You'll just have to talk to him."

"Ummm," said Mr. Ashton judiciously. "Riley's six today, isn't he? I
suppose it's time I talked to him about the facts of life."

In the due course of events young Riley appeared before his father.

"Son," said Mr. Ashton, "I want to have a long talk with
you--man-to-man. You're six years old, today, aren't you?"

"Yep. And say, Pop, do you know what I saw, today? I saw the automeks
making things. I wish I was a automek."

"Nonsense!" Mr. Ashton snorted briskly. "I want to talk to you about
that. And your language. Your mother tells me that you said a naughty
word, today. You said--well, there's no use beating around the bush
about it--you said 'work,' didn't you?"

"Well, yes, Pop. But is that so awful bad?"

"I suppose there are worse words, son. But if you call a person a
worker, that's--that's _awful_. You couldn't call him a worse name."

Riley was very direct.

"Why?" he demanded.

Mr. Ashton took his son's two chubby fists in his own large palm.

"I'll try to explain. But we'll have to go back into history a long way.

"Many years ago, when people had only the crudest kind of automeks,
nearly everyone had to work. That was the word for it--work--but no one
really wanted to. They really wanted to have fun, as we do, today.

"But they didn't have any automeks to raise their crops and prepare
their food and make their clothes and do everything that the automeks
do for us in this modern age. Certain groups of men, however, were
continually working on the problem of making life easier for people.
They called themselves scientists.

"Their first automeks were crude affairs and rapidly wore out.
Sometimes they didn't last more than a few years. But these men kept
improving them. Most of the wear, they found, was caused by a process
known as corrosion and by the wearing of the parts of the machines
against each other.

"Finally, they invented materials that didn't corrode or rust and they
also figured out a means of keeping the parts from rubbing against
each other by using what they called atmospheric bearings. So now the
machines and automeks don't wear out."

"If they did wear out," Riley asked, "couldn't we make new ones?"

"No. The automeks were never set up to make themselves. And no one,
now, knows how, even if there were people who would lower themselves to
do that kind of--of--well, son, the word is 'work.' But don't worry.
They won't wear out.

"Also, back in those days, they had what they called disease and
sickness. When a person was sick it meant he didn't feel well. One
group of the scientists were engaged in getting rid of disease. They
finally did. That's the kind of things you learn about in the stories
over the Telecast."

"Why don't we get some new stories and some new music?" Riley demanded.

"Because," Mr. Ashton explained patiently, "there's no one to make
them. That would be work. Besides, our people have been listening to
those programs for over four hundred years. We know they're good."

"When I grow up," Riley announced after a little thought, "I'm going to
make up some new ones."

"Now, listen, son," Mr. Ashton warned. "People don't do these things.
And anyone who did would be considered a--a social outcast. He might
even be called before the Committee and put in an Institution."

"Is the Committee like work? You said it was."

Mr. Ashton rubbed his bald spot helplessly.

"Well--certain civic responsibilities have to be taken care of. It
isn't like making things with your hands."

"I still think it would be nice to be a automek," Riley said.

"Young man!" Mr. Ashton's voice took on that sternness which warned
Riley he had better not say anything more. "One more word out of you
and...."