Riley slammed out of the house. The attitude his parents were taking
didn't make sense to him. It was clear that they and Aunt Betty
preferred to stay at home and be hungry rather than go to one of the
neighborhood kitchens after food.

Independent as Riley was, himself, he couldn't understand how popular
opinion could be so strong. But he didn't underestimate its strength.

He went to the neighborhood kitchen. Not only had the automek delivery
broken down, but apparently the automek cooks also had stopped. Nothing
had been cooked. Riley gathered up three raw steaks, a head of lettuce,
and a few other odds and ends. He carried them down to the museum.

"Can you cook?" he asked Sue Ward.

Sue looked doubtful.

"The kitchen broke down," Riley explained. "If we want to eat, we're
going to have to cook."

"I can try," said Sue, even more doubtfully. "But I'll need a cooking
unit of some kind."

"Okay." Riley took a length of wire, fastened it in the lathe chuck and
wound it in a long spiral. He coiled the spiral on a metal plate, and
attached the wire to a power source. In a couple of minutes he had a
makeshift hot plate.

Riley thought it was the best meal he had ever eaten, even if the
steaks were a bit charred around the edges and underdone in the middle.
Perhaps the fact that Sue was the cook had a lot to do with his
appreciation of the food.

"Do you want me to fix something to take to your parents?" Sue asked.

Riley squinted his blue eyes.

"It won't hurt them to miss a meal. I'm going down and try to repair
those automeks. All that's wrong, I think, is that the main power unit
broke down."

In his diagnosis Riley was correct. With Ward's help, incompetent as
the little man was at things mechanical, he managed to repair the power
unit during the afternoon so that by evening the kitchen again was
operating at full efficiency.

"What I ought to do," said Riley, feeling a bit of pride in his repair
work, "is to go around from city to city and fix up all the broken down
machinery."

John Ward snorted his disgust at the suggestion.

"Never traveled, have you?"

"No," Riley admitted, "but I guess I could travel a little."

Ward waved his hand impatiently.

"Not what I mean. You've no idea how big the world is. There are ten
thousand major cities today. No telling how many smaller ones. Suppose
you spent ten days in each city--well, figure it out for yourself."

"I see," said Riley in a small voice.

"Got to make them work," John Ward said. "Got to teach them to work."

"And the big question," Sue added, "is how."

"But if people won't work in the face of utter disaster," Riley argued,
"how can we persuade them just by talking?"

"We can keep trying," Sue answered.