John Ward kept his promise. That evening he gave Riley the first of a
series of lessons in the science of fighting, lessons that they planned
to continue while they toured the world lecturing on the necessity of
work. If it hadn't been for Riley's idea, they would have made that
world tour.

"I've been thinking," Riley said, while they rested from the boxing
lesson. "I've decided that it's going to take something besides a major
disaster like starvation to convince people that they're going to have
to work."

Ward was gently sarcastic.

"Brilliant deduction."

"What is it you're thinking?" Sue asked. She had been acting as
appreciative audience for the sparring bout.

"They need some constant irritant, some little something to keep them
moving. I don't know whether it would work, but come with me and I'll
show you what I mean."

Riley led the way through the museum halls to the insect exhibit. He
stopped in front of the mosquito picture and read aloud:

"... The hum of its tiny, fast-moving wings was synonymous with
discomfort...."

Ward plucked at his mustache.

"So?"

"What we need," Riley said, squinting his blue eyes thoughtfully, "are
some mosquitoes."

Sue began laughing. Laughter came easily to her. And Ward responded
with his usual sarcastic chuckle.

"Turn them loose on an unsuspecting world? Riley, I don't know whether
you're a nut or a genius. But it might work."

"I just remembered," Riley said with sudden gloom. "There aren't any
mosquitoes. The last one died over five hundred years ago."

"That's so." Ward took fifteen or twenty steps along the hall, pulling
abstractedly at his little mustache.

"Always wanted to do an adventure," he said, half to himself.
"Something really new and big." He seemed to come to some inner
conclusion. "See here, Riley, lad. Don't know about mosquitoes, but
think I know where we can get some insects that might do. Only there's
a very, very excellent chance we'd never get back."

"What do you mean?"

Ward motioned with his thumb. Riley and Sue followed him down to the
flying machine exhibit. He stopped in front of the Wilpinham Rocket.

"See that name on the card--John Ward? One of our great, great,
ever-so-great grandfathers. Planned to fly that machine to Venus. Got
killed testing another rocket. They never flew the ship."

"What's that got to do with mosquitoes?"

"The old man wrote a book on Venus. What he expected to find there.
Climate hot and mucky--nasty. Full of disease, insects and what-not. If
there's any place where we might find mosquitoes, it's Venus.

"There's the ship. You're the mechanic--I'm the pilot. Mosquitoes or
not, the adventure should be worth the price. What do you say, Riley,
lad?"

Riley took a deep breath. There was fire in the depths of his blue eyes.

"I'm your mechanic," he said.