He went on to the museum. But he couldn't settle down to work. The
words that John Ward had spoken and the voice that he had used to make
his points filled Riley with an excitement that drove everything else
from his mind. He dallied around, winding an armature, moulding a few
sheets of plastic, finally began to read an old chemistry book.

After a time Riley looked up. A man was standing in the door. He had
no way of knowing how long the man had been standing there, but he put
the book down and surveyed the newcomer, trying to hide his excitement
under an air of composure. For here, he knew, he had met a kindred
spirit at last.

"You're John Ward, aren't you?" Riley asked.

The little man wore the usual khaki tunic and knee length pants. It
failed completely to conceal the supple development of his body.
He looked strong and quick. His eyes were deep brown, not hard but
continually alert. With his fingers he stroked a wispy, dark mustache.
His age, Riley decided, was in the late twenties.

"You heard my telecast?" John Ward demanded. He had a way of clipping
his words which made his speech jerky.

Riley nodded.

"How did it strike you?"

Riley hesitated.

"It just made the people angry."

"I know. I know. Committee's looking for me, no doubt. My ideas are
shocking to the dear people. Going to tear me limb from limb. But what
I'm interested in, now, is what you think."

"I think it was swell," Riley said with enthusiasm. "It's about time
somebody started telling--"

"Okay, okay." John Ward interrupted. "So we're agreed."

He turned to look back down the corridor.

"All right, Sue. Come on in."

"My sister," he said. "We heard you working. Decided the museum would
be the last place the Committee would look for us. Just wanted to check
on you first."

"The Committee wouldn't hurt you," Riley protested. "They might put you
in the Institution for a while, but they wouldn't--"

"Not worried about your Committee," John Ward said. "Not much.
Committees of a dozen cities, all over the world, would like to get
their hands on us. Dangerous reactionaries--that's Sue and I. Here's
Sue, now. Meet Riley Ashton. Got your name from the visitor's book at
the entrance."

Sue Ward smiled at Riley.

"Hello," he said.

That was all he could say. He just looked. Sue Ward was as strikingly
pretty and self-possessed as her brother was quick and wiry. She wasn't
a day over twenty. Her eyes were hazel and her hair was long and glossy
brown. She was almost as tall as her brother.

"Want to throw in with us?" John Ward demanded.

"Sure," said Riley without taking his eyes from Sue.

Sue laughed.

"Not so fast, Mr. Ashton. You don't even know what we're doing."

"I don't even care," Riley retorted boldly, "if _you're_ in it."

"And we don't know what you're doing," the girl said pointedly.

"Gosh, she's pretty!" Riley thought.

"Use your eyes, Sue," John Ward said impatiently. "Look at his work.
Look at this!"