He was so engrossed with his daily routine that he sometimes failed to
note the events which were fast shaping up in the world around him. He
did know, of course, when the automeks of the City of Paris began to
fail.

It was followed by an influx of people to the cities on the American
Continent. American City, itself, had more than doubled its population.
The housing situation was becoming acute.

The strain on the automeks to supply the increased population with
food, clothing, and other necessities was so great that Riley
anticipated an early breakdown in American City. But he more or less
shrugged the situation aside as being something with which he was
unable to cope.

At the time of his twenty-first birthday Riley Ashton was a handsome
young man. He was six feet tall, tanned of face, with a shock of unruly
blond hair, set off with large blue eyes. In spite of his reputation as
a non-conformist, many of the young ladies of American City found him
fascinating--but at a distance. Since he was not received socially, he
had no feminine company.

October 8, 2281, began as uneventfully as most days. During the
previous evening, Mr. Ashton had had a meeting with the Committee, in
which they had got around for the first time to a discussion of the
influx of people to American City. Mr. Ashton wasn't inclined to let
the findings of the Committee interfere too much with his enjoyment of
life. But he did mention them at breakfast.

It appeared, Mr. Ashton reported, that some of the automeks in Boston
City had quit functioning on October 6. Probably a part of the
inhabitants of Boston City would migrate to American City.

Riley squinted his eyes at this announcement.

"There's not room for them here."

"No," Mr. Ashton agreed, pleasantly rubbing his bald spot. "That's what
the Committee decided."

"What's the Committee going to do with them?"

"Oh, we'll just have to tell them to go somewhere else," Mr. Ashton
said complacently.

"Where?"

Mr. Ashton was vague.

"Oh, somewhere."

"There's no place for them to go. They'll starve if they don't work and
we've already seen, time and again, that they have no intention of--"

"Now, Riley," Mrs. Ashton interposed, "I've asked you not to use that
vulgar word around home. I don't see why you insist on being so coarse."

"Because that's the only word that fits the conditions," Riley said
flatly.

Mr. Ashton floated across the room and thoughtfully selected a button
on the telecast panel.

"Why worry about Boston people?" he said.

Music from the American City Telecast Station flooded the room, and Mr.
Ashton settled back comfortably to enjoy it. An automek removed the
breakfast dishes.