There followed a day by day account of Rufus Smith's radio reports.
Riley read the accounts avidly, his blood thrilling to the saga of
adventure. When he had exhausted that report he passed on to the next
account and the next.

Those were men of reckless courage and iron determination--Rufus Smith,
Billy Fenton, Alexander Williams and a score of others. But not one of
them returned from his adventure.

Last in this exhibit was a rocket machine in its actuality, cased in
transparent plastic. The ship was a hundred and fifty feet long, with
a cross-sectional diameter of forty feet. On the legend was the date
2345. He read:

"Inter-planetary rocket designed by Arthur H. Wilpinham. This ship
was to carry a crew of three and was to be piloted by John Ward of
American City. Mr. Ward's accidental death, while testing another ship,
terminated the venture. The Wilpinham rocket was never flown.

"The last of the planet travelers," breathed Riley reverently.

He knew why Ward was the last. The people had lost interest, they had
become solely concerned with forwarding their own amusement. Riley
searched for a way to get inside the plastic case. He wanted a closer
view of the big flying machine, but he couldn't find any entrance.

He also noticed that the name of the flyer, John Ward, was the same as
the name on the visitor's book at the museum entrance. He pondered this
coincidence without coming to any conclusion. After two hours he left
the exhibit and passed on to another room. And here he got the biggest
thrill of his twelve years.

The room was equipped as a workshop. There were lathes and presses,
saws and tools of all kinds, together with a considerable amount of raw
materials. Along one wall ran a chemical laboratory, with a number of
plastic molds. What was even more fascinating to young Riley Ashton was
that the equipment was set out where anyone who wanted to could get at
it.

He didn't know whether there were prohibitions against a person using
the equipment, but after some deliberation he decided that probably
no one would ever know and, if anyone did find out, wouldn't take the
trouble to stop him. Riley unearthed a small library of books on the
uses of the various machines and went to work.

For the next nine years he spent most of his waking hours in the museum
shop. In the natural course of events he became an excellent machinist
and laboratory technician.

From the books he learned to handle plastics. And from the city
warehouses he took whatever raw materials he needed to supplement the
stock in the museum. He made things, odds and ends, little mechanical
toys and the like.

Each day, as he went to and from the workshop, he passed the insect
exhibit. Each time he passed he stopped for a moment. The mosquitoes
especially fascinated him. He often read the legend aloud.

"... The hum of its tiny, fast-moving wings was synonymous with
discomfort...."

Riley would shake his head, grin at the picture for some reason unknown
even to himself and move on.