But Riley was fascinated by the tall buildings, the factories and
the warehouses. He drank in those sights with eager eyes and asked a
thousand questions, most of which Mrs. Ashton was unable to answer.
Riley particularly enjoyed a visit to one of the factories. On the
outside of the building was a sign which read:

                              FOUNDED IN
                                 2432
                            BY SMITH & CO.

Riley thought the huge, humming machines very interesting. Within the
transparent plastic cages intricate mechanical fingers were making
clothes. Riley wished he could get closer so he could see better how
the operations were carried out, but the plastic walls barred his way.

He could see that they were making children's clothes, exact duplicates
of his own tunic and pants. And, suddenly, he recalled a word he had
heard.

"Mother, what does 'work' mean?"

Mrs. Ashton was shocked.

"Riley, where did you hear that dreadful word?"

"I heard Pop say it. He said that being on the Council was just like--"

Mrs. Ashton's frantic hand closed her son's mouth. "Don't say that!"
She explained more gently. "Nice people don't use that kind of
language, Riley."

"Isn't Pop a nice person?"

"Of course. Your father must have been exasperated. Poor man--he has so
much to worry him with those dreadful Council meetings and everything.
But you must promise me never to use that word again. Not until you're
twenty-one anyway."

"Yes, but, Mother, what does it mean?"

Mrs. Ashton sighed.

"That--that word means what the automeks do. There are some things
people just don't talk about. You wouldn't want to grow up to be like
an automek, would you?"

"They have fun," Riley said wistfully. "I never have any fun."

"Riley Ashton! How can you say such a thing? Your father and I have
given you everything. And I've missed my club today, just to entertain
you."

"But automeks _do_ have fun," Riley protested. "They make things. You
won't let me make things."

Mrs. Ashton seized her son's hand firmly.

"We're going home. Right this minute. It's time your father had a talk
with you. Making things! The idea!"

At home, Mr. Ashton was still in Council meeting and, when Mrs. Ashton
floated into the room, he looked up from his desk rather annoyed.

"Sh!" he said.

On the television screen at one side of the room appeared the figures
of the other Council members. On a smaller screen was the image of a
pair of enormous dice in a cage.

"Your turn, Ashton," said one of the men.

"Okay, Waine." Mr. Ashton pressed a button on his desk, and the cage of
dice began to revolve rapidly. All the men held their breath until the
dice stopped bouncing. Two sixes showed.

"_Drat!_" said Mr. Ashton explosively. The men all laughed.

"That winds it up," said Mr. Waine. "That makes you a committeeman for
the next three times."

"_Drat!_" said Mr. Ashton again. He turned on Mrs. Ashton. "That was
your fault, my dear. I've been losing all day."

"I'm sorry," Mrs. Ashton said meekly. "But, Charles, you've simply
got to do something about Riley. He's picking up the most terrible
expressions and ideas."