Sue Ward tossed her long brown hair. "You don't need to think you're
going to leave me behind."

"Of course not," Riley said promptly.

Ward teased her.

"We'll take you along as cook, Sue. If we can find a cook book. After
those steaks, I know you need some practise."

Sue began strapping on her float belt.

"I'll go over to the library now, after a cook book."

"Get some books on medicine," Ward suggested. "We'll need medicine if
there's disease on Venus. And some books on navigation."

For nine months the three labored on the preparations for the trip.
Riley cut his way through the plastic cage surrounding the big ship,
tore it down piece by piece and rebuilt it. When he was through he was
satisfied that he knew the workings of the jet engines, the oxygen
equipment, the generators, the controls and all other parts of the ship.

[Illustration: For months they labored on preparations for the trip to
Venus.]

From a book on aeronautics he designed and rigged a training device in
which all three spent many hours under simulated flying conditions,
learning to handle the controls. While most of the actual flying would
be done by an automek pilot, it was important that they know how to
handle the ship during take-off and landing and for emergency purposes.

As a part of their education John Ward insisted that they all become
familiar with the use of weapons. From one of the museum exhibits he
took seven guns, handling explosive atomic charges, and they spent an
hour each day firing the weapons at improvised targets.

"No telling what we'll find on Venus," Ward said grimly. "If we get
there."

It hurt the little man's vanity that Sue developed into a better shot
than he did. Riley didn't care. He was much too fascinated by the ship
and its intricate workings to worry about who could handle the guns
the best. In fact, he was a little proud of the facility that Sue
developed. And as a cook, he told her that she was better than the
automeks.

Food was a problem. It was straining the resources of the city to
supply the population with enough to eat, but eventually they managed
to obtain sufficient staples for the trip. They estimated they would be
gone two years.

On the other hand, fuel was easy to get. A half dozen trips by Riley
and Ward to the World Express Station provided them with a thousand
oxy-hydro bricks, which they stacked in the fuel compartment of
the ship. These bricks vaporized at a temperature of one hundred
twenty-five degrees, Centigrade, and the vapors were exploded under
pressure.

On a moonless night, July 16, 2882, the preparations were complete.
Riley and Ward, working from float belts, burned out the museum ceiling
over the Wilpinham Rocket. They fastened seventy belts to the ship, bow
and stern, and coupled them magnetically to the ship's batteries.

Ward took the pilot's seat, Riley stood by the engines and Sue rounded
out the crew of three.

"Let 'er go," Ward ordered softly.

Riley threw the switch to the batteries and the hundred and fifty feet
of ship began rising slowly through the hole in the ceiling, floated by
the belts. Straight up, a thousand feet in the air, it rose.

"Heat the engines," Ward ordered.

Riley snapped the heater shut on an oxy-hydro brick and turned on
the electric unit. With his eye glued to the gauge he watched the
temperature rise to one hundred twenty-five degrees. The pressure of
the gases increased rapidly.

"She's heated," Riley yelled.

John Ward opened the throttle. The Wilpinham Rocket lurched slightly
and began to move. Ward's fingers gingerly touched the controls
again, and the Rocket blasted away through the starlit night into the
stratosphere.

Riley grabbed Sue's hand and danced a couple of steps.

"We're off!"

Ward glanced around with a brief, sardonic grin.

"Better get busy with your navigation. And Sue, you start cooking. I'm
hungry already."