From the workbench he picked up a miniature automek. He pressed a
button at the base of the toy and the little machine began dipping sand
from one bucket and carrying it to another. John Ward set the bucket of
sand behind a stack of books on the bench. The automek promptly went
behind the books and reappeared with a dipperful of sand.

"Know anyone else that can make an automek?" Ward demanded. "I
couldn't. You couldn't. No one in the world could except Riley. You say
you don't know what he's doing. He can work. All we can do is talk. We
can use a man who knows how to work. The world can use him.

"Here's the program," Ward went on in his jerky fashion. "We're making
all the larger cities all over the world. Giving talks. Any place we
can get into the telecasting station."

"Is that all?" Riley asked.

"What else can we do?" Ward demanded impatiently.

"I don't know. The talks just make people angry. There should be some
way to make people work."

"We're trying," the girl said. "If you can think of anything better
we'll try it, too."

They talked through the rest of the morning. Ward had another telecast
to make in American City and then they planned to move on to Denver
City. Riley promised to go along, though he wasn't certain how he could
prove useful in the campaign.

At noon Riley left the museum to go to lunch, promising to bring
something back for Ward and Sue.

He found the house in an uproar. Aunt Betty was crying and wringing her
hands. Mrs. Ashton was floating around the room with a bewildered look
on her face. And Mr. Ashton was frantically punching buttons on the
automek control panel.

"What's wrong?" Riley asked.

"Everything," Mr. Ashton snapped. "We can't get anything to eat."

Apparently the automeks which delivered the prepared meals from the
neighborhood kitchen had quit functioning. There were five thousand
neighborhood kitchens in American City to supply a population which
was now in excess of twelve million persons. It appeared that only the
automeks of the one kitchen were not working. Riley suggested that they
go out after food.

"No indeed," Mrs. Ashton said with rare positiveness. "What would the
neighbors think?"

"What difference does it make what the neighbors think?" Riley demanded
half-angrily. "Would you rather starve to death than do anything to
remedy the situation?"

"We'll just have to move to another neighborhood," Mrs. Ashton decided.

Aunt Betty brightened immediately.

"Let's do that."

Riley laughed shortly.

"They'll probably throw you out, just as the Committee's planning to do
with the people from Boston City."

"Oh, we've decided not to throw them out this time," Mr. Ashton
interposed. "We've decided it's our duty to share whatever we have."