I.

We who live in Cunopolis are a dog-loving family. We have a warm side
towards everything that goes upon four paws, and the consequence has been
that, taking things first and last, we have been always kept in confusion
and under the paw, so to speak, of some honest four-footed tyrant, who
would go beyond his privilege and overrun the whole house. Years ago
this begun, when our household consisted of a papa, a mamma, and three
or four noisy boys and girls, and a kind Miss Anna who acted as a second
mamma to the whole. There was also one more of our number, the youngest,
dear little bright-eyed Charley, who was king over us all, and rode in a
wicker wagon for a chariot, and had a nice little nurse devoted to him;
and it was through him that our first dog came.

One day Charley’s nurse took him quite a way to a neighbor’s house to
spend the afternoon; and, he being well amused, they stayed till after
nightfall. The kind old lady of the mansion was concerned that the little
prince in his little coach, with his little maid, had to travel so far
in the twilight shadows, and so she called a big dog named Carlo, and
gave the establishment into his charge.

Carlo was a great, tawny-yellow mastiff, as big as a calf, with great,
clear, honest eyes, and stiff, wiry hair; and the good lady called him to
the side of the little wagon, and said, “Now, Carlo, you must take good
care of Charley, and you mustn’t let anything hurt him.”

Carlo wagged his tail in promise of protection, and away he trotted, home
with the wicker wagon; and when he arrived, he was received with so much
applause by four little folks, who dearly loved the very sight of a dog,
he was so stroked and petted and caressed, that he concluded that he
liked the place better than the home he came from, where were only very
grave elderly people. He tarried all night, and slept at the foot of the
boys’ bed, who could hardly go to sleep for the things they found to say
to him, and who were awake ever so early in the morning, stroking his
rough, tawny back, and hugging him.

At his own home Carlo had a kennel all to himself, where he was expected
to live quite alone, and do duty by watching and guarding the place.
Nobody petted him, or stroked his rough hide, or said, “Poor dog!” to
him, and so it appears he had a feeling that he was not appreciated,
and liked our warm-hearted little folks, who told him stories, gave him
half of their own supper, and took him to bed with them sociably. Carlo
was a dog that had a mind of his own, though he couldn’t say much about
it, and in his dog fashion proclaimed his likes and dislikes quite as
strongly as if he could speak. When the time came for taking him home,
he growled and showed his teeth dangerously at the man who was sent for
him, and it was necessary to drag him back by force, and tie him into
his kennel. However, he soon settled that matter by gnawing the rope
in two and padding down again and appearing among his little friends,
quite to their delight. Two or three times was he taken back and tied
or chained; but he howled so dismally, and snapped at people in such a
misanthropic manner, that finally the kind old lady thought it better to
have no dog at all than a dog soured by blighted affection. So she loosed
his rope, and said, “There, Carlo, go and stay where you like”; and so
Carlo came to us, and a joy and delight was he to all in the house. He
loved one and all; but he declared himself as more than all the slave
and property of our little Prince Charley. He would lie on the floor as
still as a door-mat, and let him pull his hair, and roll over him, and
examine his eyes with his little fat fingers; and Carlo submitted to all
these personal freedoms with as good an understanding as papa himself.
When Charley slept, Carlo stretched himself along under the crib; rising
now and then, and standing with his broad breast on a level with the
slats of the crib, he would look down upon him with an air of grave
protection. He also took a great fancy to papa, and would sometimes pat
with tiptoe care into his study, and sit quietly down by him when he was
busy over his Greek or Latin books, waiting for a word or two of praise
or encouragement. If none came, he would lay his rough horny paw on his
knee, and look in his face with such an honest, imploring expression,
that the professor was forced to break off to say, “Why, Carlo, you
poor, good, honest fellow,—did he want to be talked to?—so he did. Well,
he shall be talked to;—he’s a nice, good dog”;—and during all these
praises Carlo’s transports and the thumps of his rough tail are not to be
described.



He had great, honest yellowish-brown eyes,—not remarkable for their
beauty, but which used to look as if he longed to speak, and he seemed
to have a yearning for praise and love and caresses that even all our
attentions could scarcely satisfy. His master would say to him sometimes,
“Carlo, you poor, good, homely dog,—how loving you are!”

Carlo was a full-blooded mastiff, and his beauty, if he had any,
consisted in his having all the good points of his race. He was a dog of
blood, come of real old mastiff lineage; his stiff, wiry hair, his big,
rough paws, and great brawny chest, were all made for strength rather
than beauty; but for all that he was a dog of tender sentiments. Yet, if
any one intruded on his rights and dignities, Carlo showed that he had
hot blood in him; his lips would go back, and show a glistening row of
ivories, that one would not like to encounter, and if any trenched on
his privileges, he would give a deep warning growl,—as much as to say,
“I am your slave for love, but you must treat me well, or I shall be
dangerous.” A blow he would not bear from any one: the fire would flash
from his great yellow eyes, and he would snap like a rifle;—yet he would
let his own Prince Charley pound on his ribs with both baby fists, and
pull his tail till he yelped, without even a show of resistance.

At last came a time when the merry voice of little Charley was heard no
more, and his little feet no more pattered through the halls; he lay pale
and silent in his little crib, with his dear life ebbing away, and no one
knew how to stop its going. Poor old Carlo lay under the crib when they
would let him, sometimes rising up to look in with an earnest, sorrowful
face; and sometimes he would stretch himself out in the entry before the
door of little Charley’s room, watching with his great open eyes lest the
thief should come in the night to steal away our treasure.

But one morning when the children woke, one little soul had gone in the
night,—gone upward to the angels; and then the cold, pale little form
that used to be the life of the house was laid away tenderly in the yard
of a neighboring church.

Poor old Carlo would pit-pat silently about the house in those days of
grief, looking first into one face and then another, but no one could
tell him where his gay little master had gone. The other children had hid
the baby-wagon away in the lumber-room lest their mamma should see it;
and so passed a week or two, and Carlo saw no trace of Charley about the
house. But then a lady in the neighborhood, who had a sick baby, sent to
borrow the wicker wagon, and it was taken from its hiding-place to go to
her. Carlo came to the door just as it was being drawn out of the gate
into the street. Immediately he sprung, cleared the fence with a great
bound, and ran after it. He overtook it, and poked his nose between the
curtains,—there was no one there. Immediately he turned away, and padded
dejectedly home. What words could have spoken plainer of love and memory
than this one action?

Carlo lived with us a year after this, when a time came for the whole
family hive to be taken up and moved away from the flowery banks of the
Ohio, to the piny shores of Maine. All our household goods were being
uprooted, disordered, packed, and sold; and the question daily arose,
“What shall we do with Carlo?” There was hard begging on the part of the
boys that he might go with them, and one even volunteered to travel all
the way in baggage cars to keep Carlo company. But papa said no, and so
it was decided to send Carlo up the river to the home of a very genial
lady who had visited in our family, and who appreciated his parts, and
offered him a home in hers.

The matter was anxiously talked over one day in the family circle while
Carlo lay under the table, and it was agreed that papa and Willie should
take him to the steamboat landing the next morning. But the next morning
Mr. Carlo was nowhere to be found. In vain was he called, from garret
to cellar; nor was it till papa and Willie had gone to the city that he
came out of his hiding-place. For two or three days it was impossible to
catch him, but after a while his suspicions were laid, and we learned not
to speak out our plans in his presence, and so the transfer at last was
prosperously effected.

We heard from him once in his new home, as being a highly appreciated
member of society, and adorning his new situation with all sorts of dog
virtues, while we wended our ways to the coast of Maine. But our hearts
were sore for want of him; the family circle seemed incomplete, until a
new favorite appeared to take his place, of which I shall tell you next
month.


II.

A neighbor, blessed with an extensive litter of Newfoundland pups,
commenced one chapter in our family history by giving us a puppy, brisk,
funny, and lively enough, who was received in our house with acclamations
of joy, and christened “Rover.” An auspicious name we all thought,
for his four or five human playfellows were all rovers,—rovers in the
woods, rovers by the banks of a neighboring patch of water, where they
dashed and splashed, made rafts, inaugurated boats, and lived among the
cat-tails and sweet flags as familiarly as so many muskrats. Rovers also
they were, every few days, down to the shores of the great sea, where
they caught fish, rowed boats, dug clams,—both girls and boys,—and one
sex quite as handily as the other. Rover came into such a lively circle
quite as one of them, and from the very first seemed to regard himself
as part and parcel of all that was going on, in doors or out. But his
exuberant spirits at times brought him into sad scrapes. His vivacity was
such as to amount to decided insanity,—and mamma and Miss Anna and papa
had many grave looks over his capers. Once he actually tore off the leg
of a new pair of trousers that Johnny had just donned, and came racing
home with it in his mouth, with its bare-legged little owner behind,
screaming threats and maledictions on the robber. What a commotion!
The new trousers had just been painfully finished, in those days when
sewing was sewing, and not a mere jig on a sewing-machine; but Rover,
so far from being abashed or ashamed, displayed an impish glee in his
performance, bounding and leaping hither and thither with his trophy in
his mouth, now growling and mangling it, and shaking it at us in elfish
triumph as we chased him hither and thither,—over the wood-pile, into the
wood-house, through the barn, out of the stable door,—vowing all sorts
of dreadful punishments when we caught him. But we might well say that,
for the little wretch would never be caught; after one of his tricks, he
always managed to keep himself out of arm’s length till the thing was a
little blown over, when in he would come, airy as ever, and wagging his
little pudgy puppy tail with an air of the most perfect assurance in the
world.

There is no saying what youthful errors were pardoned to him. Once he
ate a hole in the bed-quilt as his night’s employment, when one of
the boys had surreptitiously got him into bed with them; he nibbled
and variously maltreated sundry sheets; and once actually tore up and
chewed off a corner of the bedroom carpet, to stay his stomach during the
night season. What he did it for, no mortal knows; certainly it could
not be because he was hungry, for there were five little pairs of hands
incessantly feeding him from morning till night. Beside which, he had a
boundless appetite for shoes, which he mumbled, and shook, and tore, and
ruined, greatly to the vexation of their rightful owners,—rushing in and
carrying them from the bedsides in the night-watches, racing off with
them to any out-of-the-way corner that hit his fancy, and leaving them
when he was tired of the fun. So there is no telling of the disgrace into
which he brought his little masters and mistresses, and the tears and
threats and scoldings which were all wasted on him, as he would stand
quite at his ease, lolling out his red, saucy tongue, and never deigning
to tell what he had done with his spoils.

Notwithstanding all these sins, Rover grew up to dog-hood, the pride and
pet of the family,—and in truth a very handsome dog he was.



It is quite evident from his looks that his Newfoundland blood had been
mingled with that of some other races; for he never attained the full
size of that race, and his points in some respects resembled those of a
good setter. He was grizzled black and white, and spotted on the sides in
little inky drops about the size of a three-cent piece; his hair was long
and silky, his ears beautifully fringed, and his tail long and feathery.
His eyes were bright, soft, and full of expression, and a jollier,
livelier, more loving creature never wore dog-skin. To be sure, his
hunting blood sometimes brought us and him into scrapes. A neighbor now
and then would call with a bill for ducks, chickens, or young turkeys,
which Rover had killed. The last time this occurred it was decided that
something must be done; so Rover was shut up a whole day in a cold
lumber-room, with the murdered duck tied round his neck. Poor fellow! how
dejected and ashamed he looked, and how grateful he was when his little
friends would steal in to sit with him, and “poor” him in his disgrace!
The punishment so improved his principles that he let poultry alone from
that time, except now and then, when he would snap up a young chick or
turkey, in pure absence of mind, before he really knew what he was about.
We had great dread lest he should take to killing sheep, of which there
were many flocks in the neighborhood. A dog which once kills sheep is
a doomed beast,—as much as a man who has committed murder; and if our
Rover, through the hunting blood that was in him, should once mistake a
sheep for a deer, and kill him, we should be obliged to give him up to
justice,—all his good looks and good qualities could not save him.

What anxieties his training under this head cost us! When we were driving
out along the clean sandy roads, among the piny groves of Maine, it was
half our enjoyment to see Rover, with ears and tail wild and flying
with excitement and enjoyment, bounding and barking, now on this side
the carriage, now on that,—now darting through the woods straight as
an arrow, in his leaps after birds or squirrels, and anon returning to
trot obediently by the carriage, and, wagging his tail, to ask applause
for his performances. But anon a flock of sheep appeared in a distant
field, and away would go Rover in full bow-wow, plunging in among them,
scattering them hither and thither in dire confusion. Then Johnny and
Bill and all hands would spring from the carriage in full chase of
the rogue; and all of us shouted vainly in the rear; and finally the
rascal would be dragged back, panting and crestfallen, to be admonished,
scolded, and cuffed with salutary discipline, heartily administered by
his best friends for the sake of saving his life. “Rover, you naughty
dog! Don’t you know you mustn’t chase the sheep? You’ll be killed,
some of these days.” Admonitions of this kind, well shaken and thumped
in, at last seemed to reform him thoroughly. He grew so conscientious,
that, when a flock of sheep appeared on the side of the road, he would
immediately go to the other side of the carriage, and turn away his head,
rolling up his eyes meanwhile to us for praise at his extraordinary good
conduct. “Good dog, Rove! nice dog! good fellow! he doesn’t touch the
sheep,—no, he doesn’t.” Such were the rewards of virtue which sweetened
his self-denial; hearing which, he would plume up his feathery tail, and
loll out his tongue, with an air of virtuous assurance quite edifying to
behold.

Another of Rover’s dangers was a habit he had of running races and
cutting capers with the railroad engines as they passed near our dwelling.

We lived in plain sight of the track, and three or four times a day the
old, puffing, smoky iron horse thundered by, dragging his trains of cars,
and making the very ground shake under him. Rover never could resist
the temptation to run and bark, and race with so lively an antagonist;
and, to say the truth, John and Willy were somewhat of his mind,—so
that, though they were directed to catch and hinder him, they entered
so warmly into his own feelings that they never succeeded in breaking
up the habit. Every day when the distant whistle was heard, away would
go Rover, out of the door or through the window,—no matter which,—race
down to meet the cars, couch down on the track in front of them, barking
with all his might, as if it were only a fellow-dog, and when they came
so near that escape seemed utterly impossible, he would lie flat down
between the rails and suffer the whole train to pass over him, and then
jump up and bark, full of glee, in the rear. Sometimes he varied this
performance more dangerously by jumping out full tilt between two middle
cars when the train had passed half-way over him. Everybody predicted,
of course, that he would be killed or maimed, and the loss of a paw, or
of his fine, saucy tail, was the least of the dreadful things which were
prophesied about him. But Rover lived and throve in his imprudent courses
notwithstanding.

The engineers and firemen, who began by throwing sticks of wood and bits
of coal at him, at last were quite subdued by his successful impudence,
and came to consider him as a regular institution of the railroad, and,
if any family excursion took him off for a day, they would inquire with
interest, “Where’s our dog?—what’s become of Rover?” As to the female
part of our family, we had so often anticipated piteous scenes when poor
Rover would be brought home with broken paws or without his pretty tail,
that we quite used up our sensibilities, and concluded that some kind
angel, such as is appointed to watch over little children’s pets, must
take special care of our Rover.

Rover had very tender domestic affections. His attachment to his little
playfellows was most intense; and one time, when all of them were taken
off together on a week’s excursion, and Rover left alone at home, his low
spirits were really pitiful. He refused entirely to eat for the first
day, and finally could only be coaxed to take nourishment, with many
strokings and caresses, by being fed out of Miss Anna’s own hand. What
perfectly boisterous joy he showed when the children came back!—careering
round and round, picking up chips and bits of sticks, and coming and
offering them to one and another, in the fulness of his doggish heart, to
show how much he wanted to give them something.

This mode of signifying his love by bringing something in his mouth
was one of his most characteristic tricks. At one time he followed the
carriage from Brunswick to Bath, and in the streets of the city somehow
lost his way, so that he was gone all night. Many a little heart went
to bed anxious and sorrowful for the loss of its shaggy playfellow that
night, and Rover doubtless was remembered in many little prayers; what,
therefore, was the joy of being awakened by a joyful barking under
the window the next morning, when his little friends rushed in their
nightgowns to behold Rover back again, fresh and frisky, bearing in his
mouth a branch of a tree about six feet long, as his offering of joy.

When the family removed to Zion Hill, Rover went with them, the trusty
and established family friend. Age had somewhat matured his early
friskiness. Perhaps the grave neighborhood of a theological seminary
and the responsibility of being a Professor’s dog might have something
to do with it, but Rover gained an established character as a dog of
respectable habits, and used to march to the post-office at the heels of
his master twice a day, as regularly as any theological student.

Little Charley the second—the youngest of the brood, who took the place
of our lost little Prince Charley—was yet padding about in short robes,
and seemed to regard Rover in the light of a discreet older brother, and
Rover’s manners to him were of most protecting gentleness. Charley seemed
to consider Rover in all things as such a model, that he overlooked the
difference between a dog and a boy, and wearied himself with fruitless
attempts to scratch his ear with his foot as Rover did, and one day was
brought in dripping from a neighboring swamp, where he had been lying
down in the water, because Rover did.

Once in a while a wild oat or two from Rover’s old sack would seem to
entangle him. Sometimes, when we were driving out, he would, in his races
after the carriage, make a flying leap into a farmer’s yard, and, if he
lighted in a flock of chickens or turkeys, gobble one off-hand, and be
off again and a mile ahead before the mother hen had recovered from her
astonishment. Sometimes, too, he would have a race with the steam-engine
just for old acquaintance’ sake. But these were comparatively transient
follies; in general, no members of the grave institutions around him
behaved with more dignity and decorum than Rover. He tried to listen to
his master’s theological lectures, and to attend chapel on Sundays; but
the prejudices of society were against him, and so he meekly submitted to
be shut out, and waited outside the door on these occasions.

He formed a part of every domestic scene. At family prayers, stretched
out beside his master, he looked up reflectively with his great soft
eyes, and seemed to join in the serious feeling of the hour. When all
were gay, when singing, or frolicking, or games were going on, Rover
barked and frisked in higher glee than any. At night it was his joy to
stretch his furry length by our bedside, where he slept with one ear on
cock for any noise which it might be his business to watch and attend to.
It was a comfort to hear the tinkle of his collar when he moved in the
night, or to be wakened by his cold nose pushed against one’s hand if one
slept late in the morning. And then he was always so glad when we woke;
and when any member of the family circle was gone for a few days, Rover’s
warm delight and welcome were not the least of the pleasures of return.

And what became of him? Alas! the fashion came up of poisoning dogs, and
this poor, good, fond, faithful creature was enticed into swallowing
poisoned meat. One day he came in suddenly, ill and frightened, and
ran to the friends who always had protected him,—but in vain. In a
few moments he was in convulsions, and all the tears and sobs of his
playfellows could not help him; he closed his bright, loving eyes, and
died in their arms.

If those who throw poison to dogs could only see the real grief it brings
into a family to lose the friend and playfellow who has grown up with
the children, and shared their plays, and been for years in every family
scene,—if they could know how sorrowful it is to see the poor dumb friend
suffer agonies which they cannot relieve,—if they could see all this, we
have faith to believe they never would do so more.

Our poor Rover was buried with decent care near the house, and a mound of
petunias over him kept his memory ever bright; but it will be long before
his friends will get another as true.


III.

After the sad fate of Rover, there came a long interval in which we had
no dog. Our hearts were too sore to want another. His collar, tied with
black crape, hung under a pretty engraving of Landseer’s, called “My
Dog,” which we used to fancy to be an exact resemblance of our pet.

The children were some of them grown up and gone to school, or scattered
about the world. If ever the question of another dog was agitated, papa
cut it short with, “I won’t have another; I won’t be made to feel again
as I did about Rover.” But somehow Mr. Charley the younger got his eye on
a promising litter of puppies, and at last he begged papa into consenting
that he might have one of them.

It was a little black mongrel, of no particular race or breed,—a mere
common cur, without any pretensions to family, but the best-natured,
jolliest little low-bred pup that ever boy had for a playmate. To be
sure, he had the usual puppy sins; he would run away with papa’s slippers
and boots, and stockings; he would be under everybody’s feet, at the
most inconvenient moment; he chewed up a hearth-broom or two, and pulled
one of Charley’s caps to pieces in the night, with an industry worthy of
a better cause;—still, because he was dear to Charley, papa and mamma
winked very hard at his transgressions.

The name of this little black individual was Stromion—a name taken from
a German fairy tale, which the Professor was very fond of reading in the
domestic circle; and Stromion, by dint of much patience, much feeding,
and very indulgent treatment, grew up into a very fat, common-looking
black cur dog, not very prepossessing in appearance and manners, but
possessed of the very best heart in the world, and most inconceivably
affectionate and good-natured. Sometimes some of the older members of the
family would trouble Charley’s enjoyment in his playfellow by suggesting
that he was no blood dog, and that he belonged to no particular dog
family that could be named. Papa comforted him by the assurance that
Stromion did belong to a very old and respectable breed,—that he was a
_mongrel_; and Charley after that valued him excessively under this head;
and if any one tauntingly remarked that Stromion was only a cur, he would
flame up in his defence,—“He isn’t a cur, he’s a mongrel,” introducing
him to strangers with the addition to all his other virtues, that he was
a “pure mongrel,—papa says so.”

The edict against dogs in the family having once been broken down, Master
Will proceeded to gratify his own impulses, and soon led home to the
family circle an enormous old black Newfoundland, of pure breed, which
had been presented him by a man who was leaving the place, Prince was
in the decline of his days, but a fine, majestic old fellow. He had a
sagacity and capacity of personal affection which were uncommon. Many
dogs will change from master to master without the least discomposure.
A good bone will compensate for any loss of the heart, and make a new
friend seem quite as good as an old one. But Prince had his affections
quite as distinctly as a human being, and we learned this to our sorrow
when he had to be weaned from his old master under our roof. His howls
and lamentations were so dismal and protracted, that the house could not
contain him; we were obliged to put him into an outhouse to compose his
mind, and we still have a vivid image of him sitting, the picture of
despair, over an untasted mutton shank, with his nose in the air, and
the most dismal howls proceeding from his mouth. Time, the comforter,
however, assuaged his grief, and he came at last to transfer all his
stores of affection to Will, and to consider himself once more as a dog
with a master.

Prince used to inhabit his young master’s apartment, from the window of
which he would howl dismally when Will left him to go to the academy
near by, and yelp triumphant welcomes when he saw him returning. He was
really and passionately fond of music, and, though strictly forbidden the
parlor, would push and elbow his way there with dogged determination when
there was playing or singing. Any one who should have seen Prince’s air
when he had a point to carry, would understand why quiet obstinacy is
called doggedness.

The female members of the family, seeing that two dogs had gained
admission to the circle, had cast their eyes admiringly on a charming
little Italian greyhound, that was living in doleful captivity at a
dog-fancier’s in Boston, and resolved to set him free and have him
for their own. Accordingly they returned one day in triumph, with him
in their arms,—a fair, delicate creature, white as snow, except one
mouse-colored ear. He was received with enthusiasm, and christened
Giglio; the honors of his first bath and toilette were performed by
Mademoiselles the young ladies on their knees, as if he had been in
reality young Prince Giglio from fairy-land.

Of all beautiful shapes in dog form, never was there one more perfect
than this. His hair shone like spun glass, and his skin was as fine and
pink as that of a baby; his paws and ears were translucent like fine
china, and he had great, soft, tremulous dark eyes; his every movement
seemed more graceful than the last. Whether running or leaping, or
sitting in graceful attitudes on the parlor table among the ladies’
embroidery-frames, with a great rose-colored bow under his throat, he was
alike a thing of beauty, and his beauty alone won all hearts to him.



When the papa first learned that a third dog had been introduced into
the household, his patience gave way. The thing was getting desperate;
we were being overrun with dogs; our house was no more a house, but a
kennel; it ought to be called Cunopolis,—a city of dogs; he could not and
would not have it so; but papa, like most other indulgent old gentlemen,
was soon reconciled to the children’s pets. In fact, Giglio was found
cowering under the bed-clothes at the Professor’s feet not two mornings
after his arrival, and the good gentleman descended with him in his arms
to breakfast, talking to him in the most devoted manner:—“Poor little
Giglio, was he cold last night? and did he want to get into papa’s bed?
he should be brought down stairs, that he should”;—all which, addressed
to a young rascal whose sinews were all like steel, and who could have
jumped from the top stair to the bottom like a feather, was sufficiently
amusing.

Giglio’s singular beauty and grace were his only merits; he had no
love nor power of loving; he liked to be petted and kept warm, but it
mattered nothing to him who did it. He was as ready to run off with a
stranger as with his very best friend,—would follow any whistle or any
caller,—was, in fact, such a gay rover, that we came very near losing
him many times; and more than once he was brought back from the Boston
cars, on board which he had followed a stranger. He also had, we grieve
to say, very careless habits; and after being washed white as snow,
and adorned with choice rose-colored ribbons, would be brought back
soiled and ill-smelling from a neighbor’s livery-stable, where he had
been indulging in low society. For all that, he was very lordly and
aristocratic in his airs with poor Stromion, who was a dog with a good,
loving heart, if he was black and homely. Stromion admired Giglio with
the most evident devotion; he would always get up to give him the warm
corner, and would sit humbly in the distance and gaze on him with most
longing admiration,—for all of which my fine gentleman rewarded him only
with an occasional snarl or a nip, as he went by him. Sometimes Giglio
would condescend to have a romp with Stromion for the sake of passing
the time, and then Stromion would be perfectly delighted, and frisk and
roll his clumsy body over the carpet with his graceful antagonist, all
whose motions were a study for an artist. When Giglio was tired of play,
he would give Stromion a nip that would send him yelping from the field;
and then he would tick, tick gracefully away to some embroidered ottoman
forbidden to all but himself, where he would sit graceful and classical
as some Etruscan vase, and look down superior on the humble companion who
looked up to him with respectful admiration.

Giglio knew his own good points, and was possessed with the very spirit
of a coquette. He would sometimes obstinately refuse the caresses and
offered lap of his mistresses, and seek to ingratiate himself with some
stolid theological visitor, for no other earthly purpose that we could
see than that he was determined to make himself the object of attention.
We have seen him persist in jumping time and again on the hard, bony
knees of some man who hated dogs, and did not mean to notice him, until
he won attention and caresses, when immediately he would spring down and
tick away perfectly contented. He assumed lofty, fine-gentleman airs with
Prince also, for which sometimes he got his reward,—for Prince, the old,
remembered that he was a dog of blood, and would not take any nonsense
from him.

Like many old dogs, Prince had a very powerful doggy smell, which was a
great personal objection to him, and Giglio was always in a civil way
making reflections upon this weak point. Prince was fond of indulging
himself with an afternoon nap on the door-mat, and sometimes when he rose
from his repose, Giglio would spring gracefully from the table where he
had been overlooking him, and, picking his way daintily to the mat, would
snuff at it, with his long, thin nose, with an air of extreme disgust.
It was evidently a dog insult, done according to the politest modes of
refined society, and said as plain as words could say,—“My dear sir,
excuse me, but can you tell what makes this peculiar smell where you have
been lying?” At any rate, Prince understood the sarcasm, for a deep angry
growl and a sharp nip would now and then teach my fine gentleman to mind
his own business.

Giglio’s lot at last was to travel in foreign lands, for his young
mistresses, being sent to school in Paris, took him with them to finish
his education and acquire foreign graces. He was smuggled on board the
Fulton, and placed in an upper berth, well wrapped in a blanket; and the
last we saw of him was his long, thin Italian nose, and dark, tremulous
eyes looking wistfully at us from the folds of the flannel in which he
shivered. Sensitiveness to cold was one of his great peculiarities. In
winter he wore little blankets, which his fond mistresses made with
anxious care, and on which his initials were embroidered with their own
hands. In the winter weather on Zion Hill he was often severely put to it
to gratify his love of roving in the cold snows; he would hold up first
one leg, and then the other, and contrive to get along on three, so as
to save himself as much as possible; and more than once he caught severe
colds, requiring careful nursing and medical treatment to bring him round
again.

The Fulton sailed early in March. It was chilly, stormy weather, so that
the passengers all suffered somewhat with cold, and Master Giglio was
glad to lie rolled in his blanket, looking like a sea-sick gentleman.
The captain very generously allowed him a free passage, and in pleasant
weather he used to promenade the deck, where his beauty won for him
caresses and attentions innumerable. The stewards and cooks always had
choice morsels for him, and fed him to such a degree as would have
spoiled any other dog’s figure; but his could not be spoiled. All the
ladies vied with each other in seeking his good graces, and after
dinner he pattered from one to another, to be fed with sweet things and
confectionery, and hear his own praises, like a gay buck of fashion as he
was.

Landed in Paris, he met a warm reception at the Pension of Madame B⸺; but
ambition filled his breast. He was in the great, gay city of Paris, the
place where a handsome dog has but to appear to make his fortune, and so
Giglio resolved to seek out for himself a more brilliant destiny.

One day, when he was being led to take the air in the court, he slipped
his leash, sped through the gate, and away down the street like the wind.
It was idle to attempt to follow him; he was gone like a bird in the air,
and left the hearts of his young mistresses quite desolate.

Some months after, as they were one evening eating ices in the Champs
Elysées, a splendid carriage drove up, from which descended a liveried
servant, with a dog in his arms. It was Giglio, the faithless Giglio,
with his one mouse-colored ear, that marked him from all other dogs!
He had evidently accomplished his destiny, and become the darling of
rank and fashion, rode in an elegant carriage, and had a servant in
livery devoted to him. Of course he did not pretend to notice his former
friends. The footman, who had come out apparently to give him an airing,
led him up and down close by where they were sitting, and bestowed on
him the most devoted attentions. Of course there was no use in trying to
reclaim him, and so they took their last look of the fair inconstant, and
left him to his brilliant destiny. And thus ends the history of PRINCE
GIGLIO.


IV.

After Prince Giglio deserted us and proved so faithless, we were for
a while determined not to have another pet. They were all good for
nothing,—all alike ungrateful; we forswore the whole race of dogs. But
the next winter we went to live in the beautiful city of Florence, in
Italy, and there, in spite of all our protestations, our hearts were
again ensnared.

You must know that in the neighborhood of Florence is a celebrated villa,
owned by a Russian nobleman, Prince Demidoff, and that among other fine
things that are to be found there are a very nice breed of King Charles
spaniels, which are called Demidoffs, after the place. One of these,
a pretty little creature, was presented to us by a kind lady, and our
resolution against having any more pets all melted away in view of the
soft, beseeching eyes, the fine, silky ears, the glossy, wavy hair,
and bright chestnut paws of the new favorite. She was exactly such a
pretty creature as one sees painted in some of the splendid old Italian
pictures, and which Mr. Ruskin describes as belonging to the race of
“fringy paws.” The little creature was warmly received among us; an
ottoman was set apart for her to lie on; and a bright bow of green, red,
and white ribbon, the Italian colors, was prepared for her neck; and she
was christened Florence, after her native city.



Florence was a perfect little fine lady, and a perfect
Italian,—sensitive, intelligent, nervous, passionate, and constant in her
attachments, but with a hundred little whims and fancies that required
petting and tending hourly. She was perfectly miserable if she was not
allowed to attend us in our daily drives, yet in the carriage she was so
excitable and restless, so interested to take part in everything she saw
and heard in the street, that it was all we could do to hold her in and
make her behave herself decently. She was nothing but a little bundle of
nerves, apparently all the while in a tremble of excitement about one
thing or another; she was so disconsolate if left at home, that she went
everywhere with us. She visited the picture-galleries, the museums, and
all the approved sights of Florence, and improved her mind as much as
many other young ladies who do the same.

Then we removed from Florence to Rome, and poor Flo was direfully
sea-sick on board the steamboat, in company with all her young
mistresses, but recovered herself at Civita Vecchia, and entered Rome in
high feather. There she settled herself complacently in our new lodgings,
which were far more spacious and elegant than those we had left in
Florence, and began to claim her little rights in all the sight-seeing of
the Eternal City.

She went with us to palaces and to ruins, scrambling up and down, hither
and thither, with the utmost show of interest. She went up all the stairs
to the top of the Capitol, except the very highest and last, where she
put on airs, whimpered, and professed such little frights, that her
mistress was forced to carry her; but once on top, she barked from right
to left,—now at the snowy top of old Soracte, now at the great, wide,
desolate plains of the Campagna, and now at the old ruins of the Roman
Forum down under our feet. Upon all she had her own opinion, and was not
backward to express herself. At other times she used to ride with us to a
beautiful country villa outside of the walls of Rome, called the Pamfili
Doria. How beautiful and lovely this place was I can scarcely tell my
little friends. There were long alleys and walks of the most beautiful
trees; there were winding paths leading to all manner of beautiful
grottos, and charming fountains, and the wide lawns used to be covered
with the most lovely flowers. There were anemones that looked like little
tulips, growing about an inch and a half high, and of all colors,—blue,
purple, lilac, pink, crimson, and white,—and there were great beds of
fragrant blue and white violets. As to the charming grace and beauty
of the fountains that were to be found here and there all through the
grounds, I could not describe them to you. They were made of marble,
carved in all sorts of fanciful devices, and grown over with green mosses
and maidenhair.

What spirits little Miss Flo had, when once set down in these enchanting
fields! While all her mistresses were gathering lapfuls of many-colored
anemones, violets, and all sorts of beautiful things, Flo would snuff the
air, and run and race hither and thither, with her silky ears flying and
her whole little body quivering with excitement. Now she would race round
the grand basin of a fountain, and bark with all her might at the great
white swans that were swelling and ruffling their silver-white plumage,
and took her noisy attentions with all possible composure. Then she would
run off down some long side-alley after a lot of French soldiers, whose
gay red legs and blue coats seemed to please her mightily; and many a
fine chase she gave her mistresses, who were obliged to run up and down,
here, there, and everywhere, to find her when they wanted to go home
again.

One time my lady’s friskiness brought her into quite a serious trouble,
as you shall hear. We were all going to St. Peter’s Church, and just
as we came to the bridge of St. Angelo, that crosses the Tiber, we met
quite a concourse of carriages. Up jumped my lady Florence, all alive and
busy,—for she always reckoned everything that was going on a part of her
business,—and gave such a spring that over she went, sheer out of the
carriage, into the mixed medley of carriages, horses, and people below.
We were all frightened enough, but not half so frightened as she was,
as she ran blindly down a street, followed by a perfect train of ragged
little black-eyed, black-haired boys, all shouting and screaming after
her. As soon as he could, our courier got down and ran after her, but
he might as well have chased a streak of summer lightning. She was down
the street, round the corner, and lost to view, with all the ragamuffin
tribe, men, boys, and women, after her; and so we thought we had lost
her, and came home to our lodgings very desolate in heart, when lo! our
old porter told us that a little dog that looked like ours had come
begging and whining at our street door, but before he could open it the
poor little wanderer had been chased away again and gone down the street.
After a while some very polite French soldiers picked her up in the
Piazza di Spagna,—a great public square near our dwelling, to get into
which we were obliged to go down some one or two hundred steps. We could
fancy our poor Flo, frightened and panting, flying like a meteor down
these steps, till she was brought up by the arms of a soldier below.

Glad enough were we when the polite soldier brought her back to our
doors;—and one must say one good thing for French soldiers all the
world over, that they are the pleasantest-tempered and politest people
possible, so very tender-hearted towards all sorts of little defenceless
pets, so that our poor runaway could not have fallen into better hands.

After this, we were careful to hold her more firmly when she had her
little nervous starts and struggles in riding about Rome.

One day we had been riding outside of the walls of the city, and just
as we were returning home we saw coming towards us quite a number
of splendid carriages with prancing black horses. It was the Pope
and several of his cardinals coming out for an afternoon airing. The
carriages stopped, and the Pope and cardinals all got out to take a
little exercise on foot, and immediately all carriages that were in the
way drew to one side, and those of the people in them who were Roman
Catholics got out and knelt down to wait for the Pope’s blessing as he
went by. As for us, we were contented to wait sitting in the carriage.

On came the Pope, looking like a fat, mild, kind-hearted old gentleman,
smiling and blessing the people as he went on, and the cardinals scuffing
along in the dust behind him. He walked very near to our carriage, and
Miss Florence, notwithstanding all our attempts to keep her decent, would
give a smart little bow-wow right in his face just as he was passing.
He smiled benignly, and put out his hand in sign of blessing toward our
carriage, and Florence doubtless got what she had been asking for.

From Rome we travelled to Naples, and Miss Flo went with us through
our various adventures there,—up Mount Vesuvius, where she half choked
herself with sulphurous smoke. There is a place near Naples called the
Solfatara, which is thought to be the crater of the extinct volcano,
where there is a cave that hisses, and roars, and puffs out scalding
steam like a perpetual locomotive, and all the ground around shakes and
quivers as if it were only a crust over some terrible abyss. The pools
of water are all white with sulphur; the ground is made of sulphur
and arsenic and all such sort of uncanny matters; and we were in a
fine fright lest Miss Florence, being in one of her wildest and most
indiscreet moods, should tumble into some burning hole, or strangle
herself with sulphur; and in fact she rolled over and over in a sulphur
puddle, and then, scampering off, rolled in ashes by way of cleaning
herself. We could not, however, leave her at home during any of our
excursions, and so had to make the best of these imprudences.

When at last the time came for us to leave Italy, we were warned that
Florence would not be allowed to travel in the railroad cars in the
French territories. All dogs, of all sizes and kinds, whose owners wish
to have travel with them, are shut up in a sort of closet by themselves,
called the dog-car; and we thought our nervous, excitable little pet
would be frightened into fits, to be separated from all her friends,
and made to travel with all sorts of strange dogs. So we determined to
smuggle her along in a basket. At Turin we bought a little black basket,
just big enough to contain her, and into it we made her go,—very sorely
against her will, as we could not explain to her the reason why. Very
guilty indeed we felt, with this travelling conveyance hung on one arm,
sitting in the waiting-room, and dreading every minute lest somebody
should see the great bright eyes peeping through the holes of the basket,
or hear the subdued little whines and howls which every now and then came
from its depths.

Florence had been a petted lady, used to having her own way, and a
great deal of it; and this being put up in a little black basket, where
she could neither make her remarks on the scenery, nor join in the
conversation of her young mistresses, seemed to her a piece of caprice
without rhyme or reason. So every once in a while she would express
her mind on the subject by a sudden dismal little whine; and what was
specially trying, she would take the occasion to do this when the cars
stopped and all was quiet, so that everybody could hear her. Where’s
that dog?—somebody’s got a dog in here,—was the inquiry very plain to
be seen in the suspicious looks which the guard cast upon us as he put
his head into our compartment, and gazed about inquiringly. Finally, to
our great terror, a railway director, a tall, gentlemanly man, took his
seat in our very compartment, where Miss Florence’s basket garnished
the pocket above our heads, and she was in one of her most querulous
moods. At every stopping-place she gave her little sniffs and howls, and
rattled her basket so as to draw all eyes. We all tried to look innocent
and unconscious, but the polite railroad director very easily perceived
what was the matter. He looked from one anxious, half-laughing face to
the others, with a kindly twinkle in his eye, but said nothing. All the
guards and _employés_ bowed down to him, and came cap in hand at every
stopping-place to take his orders. What a relief it was to hear him say,
in a low voice, to them: “These young ladies have a little dog which they
are carrying. Take no notice of it, and do not disturb them!” Of course,
after that, though Florence barked and howled and rattled her basket, and
sometimes showed her great eyes, like two coal-black diamonds, through
its lattice-work, nobody saw and nobody heard, and we came unmolested
with her to Paris.

After a while she grew accustomed to her little travelling carriage, and
resigned herself quietly to go to sleep in it; and so we got her from
Paris to Kent, where we stopped a few days to visit some friends in a
lovely country place called Swaylands.

Here we had presented to us another pet, that was ever after the chosen
companion and fast friend of Florence. He was a little Skye terrier, of
the color of a Maltese cat, covered all over with fine, long, silky hair,
which hung down so evenly, that it was difficult at the first glance to
say which was his head and which his tail. But at the head end there
gleamed out a pair of great, soft, speaking eyes, that formed the only
beauty of the creature; and very beautiful they were, in their soft,
beseeching lovingness.

Poor Rag had the tenderest heart that ever was hid in a bundle of hair;
he was fidelity and devotion itself, and used to lie at our feet in
the railroad carriages as still as a gray sheep-skin, only too happy
to be there on any terms. It would be too long to tell our travelling
adventures in England; suffice it to say, that at last we went on board
the Africa to come home, with our two pets, which had to be handed over
to the butcher, and slept on quarters of mutton and sides of beef, till
they smelt of tallow and grew fat in a most vulgar way.

At last both of them were safely installed in the brown stone cottage in
Andover, and Rag was presented to a young lady to whom he had been sent
as a gift from England, and to whom he attached himself with the most
faithful devotion.

Both dogs insisted on having their part of the daily walks and drives of
their young mistresses; and, when they observed them putting on their
hats, would run, and bark, and leap, and make as much noise as a family
of children clamoring for a ride.

After a few months, Florence had three or four little puppies. Very puny
little things they were; and a fierce, nervous little mother she made.
Her eyes looked blue as burnished steel, and if anybody only set foot in
the room where her basket was, her hair would bristle, and she would bark
so fiercely as to be quite alarming. For all that, her little ones proved
quite a failure, for they were all stone-blind. In vain we waited and
hoped and watched for nine days, and long after; the eyes were glazed and
dim, and one by one they died. The last two seemed to promise to survive,
and were familiarly known in the family circle by the names of Milton and
Beethoven.

But the fatigues of nursing exhausted the delicate constitution of poor
Florence, and she lay all one day in spasms. It became evident that a
tranquil passage must be secured for Milton and Beethoven to the land of
shades, or their little mother would go there herself; and accordingly
they vanished from this life.

As to poor Flo, the young medical student in the family took her into a
water-cure course of treatment, wrapping her in a wet napkin first, and
then in his scarlet flannel dressing-gown, and keeping a wet cloth with
iced water round her head. She looked out of her wrappings, patient and
pitiful, like a very small old African female, in a very serious state of
mind. To the glory of the water-cure, however, this course in one day so
cured her, that she was frisking about the next, happy as if nothing had
happened.

She had, however, a slight attack of the spasms, which caused her to run
frantically and cry to have the hall-door opened; and when it was opened,
she scampered up in all haste into the chamber of her medical friend,
and, not finding him there, jumped upon his bed, and began with her teeth
and paws to get around her the scarlet dressing-gown in which she had
found relief before. So she was again packed in wet napkins, and after
that never had another attack.

After this, Florence was begged from us by a lady who fell in love with
her beautiful eyes, and she went to reside in a most lovely cottage in
H⸺, where she received the devoted attentions of a whole family. The
family physician, however, fell violently in love with her, and, by dint
of caring for her in certain little ailments, awakened such a sentiment
in return, that at last she was given to him, and used to ride about in
state with him in his carriage, visiting his patients, and giving her
opinion on their symptoms.

At last her health grew delicate and her appetite failed. In vain
chicken, and chops, and all the delicacies that could tempt the most
fastidious, were offered to her, cooked expressly for her table; the end
of all things fair must come, and poor Florence breathed her last, and
was put into a little rosewood casket, lined with white, and studded
with silver nails, and so buried under a fine group of chestnuts in the
grounds of her former friends. A marble tablet was to be affixed to one
of these, commemorating her charms; but, like other spoiled beauties, her
memory soon faded, and the tablet has been forgotten.

The mistress of Rag, who is devoted to his memory, insists that not
enough space has been given in this memoir to his virtues. But the
virtues of honest Rag were of that kind which can be told in a few
sentences,—a warm, loving heart, a boundless desire to be loved, and a
devotion that made him regard with superstitious veneration all the
movements of his mistress. The only shrewd trick he possessed was a habit
of drawing on her sympathy by feigning a lame leg whenever she scolded or
corrected him. In his English days he had had an injury from the kick of
a horse, which, however, had long since been healed; but he remembered
the petting he got for this infirmity, and so recalled it whenever he
found that his mistress’s stock of affection was running low. A blow or
a harsh word would cause him to limp in an alarming manner; but a few
caresses would set matters all straight again.

Rag had been a frantic ratter, and often roused the whole family by his
savage yells after rats that he heard gambolling quite out of his reach
behind the partitions in the china closet. He would crouch his head on
his fore-paws, and lie watching at rat-holes, in hopes of intercepting
some transient loafer; and one day he actually broke the back and bones
of a gray old thief whom he caught marauding in the china closet.

Proud and happy was he of this feat; but, poor fellow! he had to repose
on the laurels thus gained, for his teeth were old and poor, and more
than one old rebel slipped away from him, leaving him screaming with
disappointed ambition.

At last poor Rag became aged and toothless, and a shake which he one
day received from a big dog, who took him for a bundle of wick-yarn,
hastened the breaking up of his constitution. He was attacked with
acute rheumatism, and, notwithstanding the most assiduous cares of his
mistress, died at last in her arms.

Funeral honors were decreed him; white chrysanthemums and myrtle leaves
decked his bier. And so Rag was gathered to the dogs which had gone
before him.


V.

Well, after the departure of Madam Florence there was a long cessation
of the dog mania in our family. We concluded that we would have no more
pets; for they made too much anxiety, and care, and trouble, and broke
all our hearts by death or desertion.

At last, however, some neighbors of ours took unto themselves, to enliven
their dwelling, a little saucy Scotch terrier, whose bright eyes and
wicked tricks so wrought upon the heart of one of our juvenile branches,
that there was no rest in the camp without this addition to it. Nothing
was so pretty, so bright, so knowing and cunning, as a “Scotch terrier,”
and a Scotch terrier we must have,—so said Miss Jenny, our youngest.

And so a bargain was struck by one of Jenny’s friends with some of the
knowing ones in Boston, and home she came, the happy possessor of a
genuine article,—as wide awake, impertinent, frisky, and wicked a little
elf as ever was covered with a shock of rough tan-colored hair.

His mistress no sooner gazed on him, than she was inspired to give him
a name suited to his peculiar character;—so he frisked into the front
door announced as Wix, and soon made himself perfectly at home in the
family circle, which he took, after his own fashion, by storm. He entered
the house like a small whirlwind, dashed, the first thing, into the
Professor’s study, seized a slipper which was dangling rather uncertainly
on one of his studious feet, and, wresting it off, raced triumphantly
with it around the hall, barking distractedly every minute that he was
not shaking and worrying his prize.

Great was the sensation. Grandma tottered with trembling steps to the
door, and asked, with hesitating tones, what sort of a creature that
might be; and being saluted with the jubilant proclamation, “Why,
Grandma, it’s my dog,—a real genuine, Scotch terrier; he’ll never grow
any larger, and he’s a perfect beauty! don’t you think so?”—Grandma could
only tremblingly reply, “O, there is not any danger of his going mad, is
there? Is he generally so playful?”

Playful was certainly a mild term for the tempest of excitement in
which master Wix flew round and round in giddy circles, springing over
ottomans, diving under sofas, barking from beneath chairs, and resisting
every effort to recapture the slipper with bristling hair and blazing
eyes, as if the whole of his dog-life consisted in keeping his prize;
till at length he caught a glimpse of pussy’s tail,—at which, dropping
the slipper, he precipitated himself after the flying meteor, tumbling,
rolling, and scratching down the kitchen stairs, and standing on his
hind-legs barking distractedly at poor Tom, who had taken refuge in the
sink, and sat with his tail magnified to the size of a small bolster.

This cat, the most reputable and steady individual of his species, the
darling of the most respectable of cooks, had received the name of
Thomas Henry, by which somewhat lengthy appellation he was generally
designated in the family circle, as a mark of the respect which his
serious and contemplative manner commonly excited. Thomas had but one
trick of popularity. With much painstaking and care the cook had taught
him the act of performing a somerset over our hands when held at a
decent height from the floor; and for this one elegant accomplishment,
added to great success in his calling of rat-catching, he was held in
great consideration in the family, and had meandered his decorous way
about house, slept in the sun, and otherwise conducted himself with the
innocent and tranquil freedom which became a family cat of correct habits
and a good conscience.

The irruption of Wix into our establishment was like the bursting of
a bomb at the feet of some respectable citizen going tranquilly to
market. Thomas was a cat of courage, and rats of the largest size shrunk
appalled at the very sight of his whiskers; but now he sat in the sink
quite cowed, consulting with great, anxious yellow eyes the throng of
faces that followed Wix down the stairs, and watching anxiously the
efforts Miss Jenny was making to subdue and quiet him.

“Wix, you naughty little rascal, you mustn’t bark at Thomas Henry;
be still!” Whereat Wix, understanding himself to be blamed, brought
forth his trump card of accomplishments, which he always offered by
way of pacification whenever he was scolded. He reared himself up on
his hind-legs, hung his head languishingly on one side, lolled out his
tongue, and made a series of supplicatory gestures with his fore-paws,—a
trick which never failed to bring down the house in a storm of applause,
and carry him out of any scrape with flying colors.

Poor Thomas Henry, from his desolate sink, saw his terrible rival carried
off in Miss Jenny’s arms amid the applauses of the whole circle, and had
abundance of time to reflect on the unsubstantial nature of popularity.
After that he grew dejected and misanthropic,—a real Cardinal Wolsey
in furs,—for Wix was possessed with a perfect cat-hunting mania, and,
whenever he was not employed in other mischief, was always ready for a
bout with Thomas Henry.

It is true, he sometimes came back from these encounters with a scratched
and bloody nose, for Thomas Henry was a cat of no mean claw, and would
turn to bay at times; but generally he felt the exertion too much for his
advanced years and quiet habits, and so for safety he passed much of his
time in the sink, over the battlements of which he would leisurely survey
the efforts of the enemy to get at him. The cook hinted strongly of the
danger of rheumatism to her favorite from these damp quarters, but Wix at
present was the reigning favorite, and it was vain to dispute his sway.

Next to Thomas Henry, Wix directed his principal efforts to teasing
Grandmamma. Something or other about her black dress and quiet movements
seemed to suggest to him suspicions. He viewed her as something to be
narrowly watched; he would lie down under some chair or table, and watch
her motions with his head on his fore-paws as if he were watching at a
rat-hole. She evidently was not a rat, he seemed to say to himself, but
who knows what she may be; and he would wink at her with his great bright
eyes, and, if she began to get up, would spring from his ambush and bark
at her feet with frantic energy,—by which means he nearly threw her over
two or three times.

His young mistress kept a rod, and put him through a severe course of
discipline for these offences; after which he grew more careful,—but
still the unaccountable fascination seemed to continue; still he would
lie in ambush, and, though forbidden to bark, would dart stealthily
forward when he saw her preparing to rise, and be under her dress
smelling in a suspicious manner at her heels. He would spring from his
place at the fire, and rush to the staircase when he heard her leisurely
step descending the stairs, and once or twice nearly overset her by being
under her heels, bringing on himself a chastisement which he in vain
sought to avert by the most vigorous deprecatory pawing.

Grandmamma’s favorite evening employment was to sit sleeping in her
chair, gradually bobbing her head lower and lower,—all which movements
Wix would watch, giving a short snap, or a suppressed growl, at every
bow. What he would have done, if, as John Bunyan says, he had been
allowed to have his “doggish way” with her, it is impossible to say. Once
he succeeded in seizing the slipper from her foot as she sat napping, and
a glorious race he had with it,—out at the front door, up the path to the
Theological Seminary, and round and round the halls consecrated to better
things, with all the glee of an imp. At another time he made a dart into
her apartment, and seized a turkey-wing which the good old lady had
used for a duster, and made such a regular forenoon’s work of worrying,
shaking, and teasing it, that every feather in it was utterly demolished.

In fact, there was about Wix something so elfish and impish, that
there began to be shrewd suspicions that he must be somehow or other
a descendant of the celebrated poodle of Faust, and that one need
not be surprised some day to have him suddenly looming up into some
uncanny shape, or entering into conversation, and uttering all sorts of
improprieties unbefitting a theological professor’s family.

He had a persistence in wicked ways that resisted the most energetic
nurture and admonition of his young mistress. His combativeness was
such, that a peaceable walk down the fashionable street of Zion Hill
in his company became impossible; all was race and scurry, cackle and
flutter, wherever he appeared,—hens and poultry flying, frightened cats
mounting trees with magnified tails, dogs yelping and snarling, and
children and cows running in every direction. No modest young lady could
possibly walk out in company with such a son of confusion. Beside this,
Wix had his own private inexplicable personal piques against different
visitors in the family, and in the most unexpected moment would give
a snap or a nip to the most unoffending person. His friends in the
family circle dropped off. His ways were pronounced too bad, his conduct
perfectly indefensible; his young mistress alone clung to him, and
declared that her vigorous system of education would at last reform his
eccentricities, and turn him out a tip-top dog. But when he would slyly
leave home, and, after rolling and steeping himself in the ill-smelling
deposits of the stable or drain, come home and spring with impudent ease
into her lap, or put himself to sleep on her little white bed, the magic
cords of affection gave out, and disgust began to succeed. It began to
be remarked that this was a stable-dog, educated for the coach-boy and
stable, and to be doubted whether it was worth while to endeavor to raise
him to a lady’s boudoir; and so at last, when the family removed from
Zion Hill, he was taken back and disposed of at a somewhat reduced price.

Since then, as we are informed, he has risen to fame and honor. His name
has even appeared in sporting gazettes as the most celebrated “ratter”
in little Boston, and his mistress was solemnly assured by his present
possessor that for “cat work” he was unequalled, and that he would not
take fifty dollars for him. From all which it appears that a dog which is
only a torment and a nuisance in one sphere may be an eminent character
in another.

The catalogue of our dogs ends with Wix. Whether we shall ever have
another or not we cannot tell, but in the following pages I will tell my
young readers a few true stories of other domestic pets which may amuse
them.