VII

FORECASTS


The plan Amy had originated for going to Station Island on her
brother's yacht was approved by Jessie's mother and father, and in
the end the Drew family agreed to make the voyage, too. Mrs. Norwood
sent down her housekeeper and a staff of servants in advance so that
everything would be in readiness for the yachting party.

A few articles of clothing had been bought for Henrietta when she had
gone to the Blairs. But, besides being few, they were hardly suitable
for an outing on Station Island. So Jessie and Amy were allowed to
use their own taste in selecting the child's outfit for the island
adventure. And how they did revel in this novel undertaking!

Being down town on these errands so much during the following two days,
the Roselawn girls were bound to fall in with Belle Ringold and Sally
Moon, as well as with other members of their class in the high school.
Jessie, at least, would never have noticed Belle and her chum could she
have avoided it.

Amy had an overpowering fondness for a concoction called a George
Washington sundae which was to be found only at the New Melford
Dainties Shop. So, of course, each shopping "spree" must end with a
visit to the confectionary shop in question.

"Come on," Amy said, on the second day. "I told Darry and Burd we'd
wait for them, and we might as well ride home as walk. They have our
second car. Cyprian is driving mamma to a round of afternoon teas and
other junkets. But the boys won't forget us. Come on."

"'Come on' means only one place to come to," laughed Jessie. "I
know you. What shall we do on that island, Amy, without any George
Washington sundaes?"

"Say not so!" begged the other girl. "There is a fancy hotel there,
they say, and perhaps it has a soda fountain."

"Hi! Amy Drew!" called a voice behind them, as they descended the two
steps into the Dainties Shop.

"Well, would you ever?" demanded Amy, looking around with no eagerness.
"If it isn't Sally Moon and, of course, Belle."

"Hi, Amy!" repeated Sally. "Let me ask you something."

"Go ahead," returned Amy, but in no encouraging tone. "It's free to
ask."

Sally, however, was not easily discouraged. Evidently Belle had put her
up to ask whatever the question was, and to keep friendly with Belle
Ringold Sally had to perform a good many unpleasant tasks.

"Your brother and Burd Alling have got back with that yacht, haven't
they?" she demanded.

"You are correctly informed," answered Amy lightly.

"We want to see them. I suppose the boat is all right? That is, it is
safe, isn't it?"

"So far it hasn't sunk with them," returned Amy scornfully.

"You needn't be so snippy, Amy Drew," broke in Belle. "We want to see
your brother about the use of the _Marigold_. I suppose he will let it
to a party--for a price?"

"I don't know," said Amy, staring.

"Why, that's absurd!" Jessie declared, without thinking. "It is a
pleasure boat, not a cargo boat."

Amy began to laugh when she saw Belle's face.

"They don't even take passengers for hire," she said. "Is that what you
want to know?"

"We want to hire a yacht to take us to Station Island," Sally hastened
to say. "And Belle remembered Darrington's boat----"

"I don't suppose it is fit to take such a party as ours will be,"
interposed Belle.

"I guess Darry won't want to let it," said Amy, seeing that the two
girls were in earnest. "Besides, we are going down ourselves this week."

"Who are going where?" demanded Belle, sharply.

"It's the Norwoods' party, you know," Amy said, for Jessie had "shut up
as tight as a clam." "Mrs. Norwood has taken a bungalow there."

"On Station Island--Hackle Island it used to be called?" Sally cried.

"That is the place. And Darry will take us all on the _Marigold_. So, I
guess----"

"We might have known it!" exclaimed Belle, angrily. "The Norwoods or
some of that Roselawn crowd would tag along if we planned something
exclusive."

But Amy only laughed at this. "You don't own that island, do you?
Remember what little Hen Haney said about owning an island? Well,
Hackle, or Station Island, is the one she meant. She owns a big slice
of it."

"I don't believe it!" cried Belle.

"She does. My father says so. And he and Mr. Norwood are going to get
it for her."

"They will have a fine time doing that," sneered Belle. "Why, _my_
father has a claim upon all the middle of the island, and he is going
to make his claim good. That nasty little freckle-faced young one from
Dogtown will never get a foot of Hackle Island--you see!"

Amy shrugged her shoulders as she and Jessie took seats at a table. She
knew how to aggravate Belle Ringold, and she sometimes rather impishly
enjoyed bothering the proud girl.

"And there's one thing," went on Belle, with emphasis, so exasperated
that she did not see Nick, the clerk, who was waiting for her order, "I
wouldn't go away for the summer unless we went to a really fashionable
hotel. No, indeed! Cottagers at seaside places are always of such a
common sort!"

Amy only laughed. Jessie remained silent. It really did trouble her to
have these controversies with Belle. It was not nice and she did not
feel right after they were over.

"There is something wrong with us, as well as with Belle," Jessie said
once to Amy, on this topic.

"I'd like to know what's wrong with us?" her chum demanded. "I like
that!"

"When we squabble with Belle and Sally we make ourselves just as common
as they are."

"Tut, tut! Likewise 'go to,' whatever that means," laughed Amy Drew.
"Why, child, if we did not keep up our end of any controversy that
those girls start they would walk all over us."

However, on this occasion, and at Jessie's earnest desire, Amy hastened
the eating of her George Washington sundae and the two friends got out
of the shop before Darry and Burd Alling appeared in the car.

"What's the matter?" asked Amy's brother, when the car stopped before
the Dainties Shop and he saw his sister and Jessie waiting. "Spent all
your money and waiting for us to take you in and treat you?"

"We had ours," Jessie replied promptly, getting into the tonneau.

"Yes, indeed. 'Home, James!'" Amy added, following her chum.

"And so we are to be deprived of our needed nourishment because you
piggy-wiggies have had enough?" demanded Burd Alling, with serious
objection. "I--guess--not! Come along, Darry," and he hopped out of the
car.

"You'd better look ahead before you leap," giggled Amy.

"What's that?" asked Darry, hesitating and looking at his sister
curiously.

"What's up her sleeve?" demanded Burd, with suspicion.

"You can treat Belle and Sally instead of Jessie and me, if you go in,"
said Amy.

"Oh, my aunt!" exclaimed Burd, and sprang into the automobile again.
"Drive on, Darrington! If you love me take me away before those girls
get their hooks in me."

"Don't mind about you," growled Darrington, starting the car. "I will
look out for myself, if you please. I hope I never meet up with those
two girls again."

At that his sister went off into uncontrollable laughter.

"To think!" she cried. "And Belle and Sally are going to be all summer
on Station Island!"

"That settles it," announced Darry. "Burd and I will spend our time
aboard the _Marigold_. How about it, Burd?"

"Surest thing you know. At least we can escape those two on the yacht."

And this amused Amy immensely, too. For was not Belle desirous of
chartering the _Marigold_?