III

A FLARE-UP


The red car stopped before it completely overturned. Then, when the
exhaust was shut off, the screams of the two girls in the back seat
could be heard. But nobody shouted any louder than Montmorency Shannon.

The red-haired boy had leaped from the phaeton and had seized the pony
by the bit. Otherwise the surprised animal might have set off for home,
Amy said, "on a perfectly apoplectic run."

The little animal stood shaking and pawing, nothing but the shafts and
whiffle-tree remaining attached to it by the harness. The rear wheels
of the racing car were entangled in the phaeton and it was slewed
across the road.

"Now see what you've done! Now see what you've done!" one of the girls
in the car was saying, over and over.

"Well, I couldn't help it, Belle," whined the reckless young Brewster.
"You and Sally Moon aren't hurt. And you asked to ride with me, anyway."

"Oh, I don't mean you, Bill!" exclaimed the girl behind him. "But that
horrid boy with his pony carriage! What business had he to get in the
way?"

"Hey! 'Tain't my carriage, you Ringold girl," declared Monty Shannon.
"It's Cabbage-head Tony's. He'll sue your father for this, Bill
Brewster. And you come near killing me and the pony."

"I don't see how you came to be standing just there," complained the
driver of the red car. "You might have been on the other side of the
drive."

"He ought to have been!" declared Belle Ringold promptly. "He was
headed the wrong way. I'll testify for you, Bill. Of course he was
headed wrong."

"Why, you're another!" cried Monty. "If I'd been headed the wrong way
you'd have smashed the pony instead of the carriage."

"Never mind what they say, Monty," Jessie Norwood put in quietly.
"There are three of us here who saw the collision, and we can testify
to the truth."

"And me. I seen it," added Henrietta eagerly. "Don't forget that
Spotted Snake, the Witch, seen it all. If you big girls tell stories
about Monty and that pony, you'll wish you hadn't--now you see!"
and she began making funny gestures with her hands and writhing her
features into perfectly frightful contortions.

"Henrietta!" commanded Jessie Norwood, yet having hard work, like Nell
and Amy, to keep from laughing at the freckle-faced child. "Henrietta,
stop that! Don't you know that is not a polite way--nor a nice way--to
act?"

"Why, Miss Jessie, they won't know that," complained little Henrietta.
"They are never nice or polite."

At this statement Monty Shannon burst out laughing, too. The red-haired
boy could not be long of serious mind.

"Never you mind, Brewster," he said to the unfortunate driver of the
red car, who was notorious for getting into trouble. "Never mind; we
ain't killed. And your father can pay Cabbage-head Tony all right. It
won't break him."

"You impudent thing!" exclaimed Belle Ringold, who was a very proud and
unpleasant girl. "You are always making trouble for people, Montmorency
Shannon. It was you who would not finish stringing our radio antenna at
the Carter place and so helped spoil our picnic."

"He didn't! He didn't!" ejaculated Henrietta, dancing up and down in
her excitement. "It was me--Spotted Snake! I brought down the curse of
bad weather on your old picnic--the witch's curse. I'm the one that
brought thunder and lightning and rain to spoil your fun. And I'll do
it again."

She was so excited that Jessie could not silence her. Sally Moon burst
into a scornful laugh, but her chum, Belle, said, fanning herself as
she sat in the stalled car:

"Don't give them any attention. These Roselawn girls are just as low as
the Dogtown kids. Thank goodness, Sally, we will get away from them all
for the rest of the summer."

"Your satisfaction will only be equaled by ours," laughed Amy Drew.

"I don't know whether you will get rid of me or not, Belle," said Nell
Stanley composedly. "If you mean to go to Hackle Island----"

"Father has engaged the handsomest suite at the hotel there," Belle
broke in. "I fancy Doctor Stanley will not feel like taking you all
there, Nellie. It is very expensive."

"Oh, no, if we go we sha'n't be able to live at the hotel," confessed
the clergyman's daughter. "But the children will get the benefit of the
sea air."

"Oh!" murmured Amy. "Hackle Island is a nice place."

"But it ain't as nice as mine!" Henrietta suddenly broke in. "My island
is the best. And I wouldn't let those girls on it--not on my part of
it."

"What is that ridiculous child talking about?" demanded Belle
scornfully, while Bill Brewster continued to crawl about under his car
to discover if possible what had happened to it. "What does she mean?"

"I got an island, and everything," announced Henrietta. "I'm going to
be just as rich as you are, but I won't be so mean."

"Then you would better begin by not talking meanly," advised Jessie,
admonishingly.

"Well," sniffed Henrietta, "I haven't got to let 'em on my island if I
don't want to, have I?"

"You needn't fret," laughed Sally Moon. "Your island is like your
witch's curse. All in your mind."

"Is that so?" flared out little Henrietta. "Your old picnic was just
spoiled by my bad weather, wasn't it? Well, then, wait till you try to
get on my island," and she shook a threatening head, and even her green
parasol, in her earnestness.

Sally laughed again scornfully. But Belle flounced out of the
automobile.

"Come on!" she exclaimed. "Bill will never get this car fixed."

"Oh, yes, I will, Belle," came Bill's muffled voice from under the car.
"I always do."

"Well, who wants to wait all day for you to repair it, and then ride
home with a fellow all smeared up with oil and soot? Come on, Sally."

Sally Moon meekly followed. That was how she kept in Belle Ringold's
good graces. You had to do everything Belle said, and do just as she
did, or you could not be friends with her.

"Well," Monty Shannon drawled, "as far as I think, you both can go. I
won't weep none. But Bill's going to weep when he tells his father
about this busted carriage."

"All Bill has to do is to deny it," snapped Belle Ringold. "Nobody
would believe you against our testimony."

"Nobody but the judge," laughed Amy. "Don't be such a goose, Belle. We
will all testify for Mr. Cabbage-head Tony."

Bill crawled out from under his automobile as the two girls who had
been passengers walked away. He was just as much smutted as Belle said
he would be. But he looked after her and her friend without betraying
any dissatisfaction.

"It's all right," he said to Monty. "I guess you couldn't help being in
the way. This car does go wrong once in a while. You can jump in the
car and I'll take you home and tell the chap that owns the pony how it
happened. He can come to my father and get paid."

"Not much," said the Dogtown boy. "I'll have to lead the pony. But you
can take Hen back to Dogtown."

"Is it safe?" asked Jessie, for Henrietta had started for the red car
at once. She was crazy about automobiles.

"If it goes bad again I can get out," said the child importantly. "I
won't wait for it to turn topsy-turvy."

"She will be all right," said Bill Brewster gloomily. "Father will
make me pay for this carriage out of my own money. I'm rather glad we
are going where I can't use the machine for the rest of the summer. It
eats up all my pocket money."

"Where are your folks going, Billy?" asked Jessie politely.

"Oh, we always go to Hackle Island."

"Everybody is going to an island," laughed Amy. "I guess we'll have to
accept Hen's invitation and go to her island, Jess."

"It's a lot better island than that one those girls are going to,"
repeated Henrietta, with confidence, climbing into the red car.

When the latter was gone, and Monty Shannon was out of sight, leading
the brown and white pony, the three Roselawn girls discussed little
Henrietta's story of her sudden wealth, and particularly of her
possession of Station Island, wherever that was.

"Of course, we won't understand the rights of the matter till we see
Bertha," said Jessie. "She must know all about it."

"I wonder where Station Island is situated?" Amy observed. "Let's hunt
an atlas--Oh, no, we won't! Here is something better."

"Something better than an atlas?" laughed Nell. "A walking geography?"

"You said it," rejoined Amy. "Papa knows all about such things. I
can't even remember how New Melford is bounded; but you'd think he had
been all around the world, and walked every step of the way."

"And you never will know, Amy Drew, if you ask somebody every time you
want to know anything and never stop to work the thing out yourself,"
admonished Jessie.

"Oh, piffle!" exclaimed the careless Amy. "What's the use?"

Mr. Drew was just coming out of his own grounds across the boulevard,
and his daughter hailed him.

"Want to ask you an important question, papa," cried Amy, running to
meet him and hanging to his arm.

"Ahem! If you expect advice, I expect a retainer," said the lawyer
soberly.

"Nothing like that! I know you lawyers. I am going to wait to see
if your advice is worth anything," declared his gay daughter. "Now,
listen! Did you ever hear of Station Island?"

"I have just heard of it," responded the gentleman promptly.

"Oh! Don't be so dreadfully smart," said Amy. "I know I am telling
you----"

"Wrong. I had just heard of it to-day--before you mentioned it,"
returned her father. "But I have known of it for a good many years,
under another name."

"Then you do know where Station Island is, Mr. Drew?" cried Jessie,
eagerly. "We do so want to know."

"That is the new name they have given the place since the big radio
station was established there. It is really Hackle Island, girls, and
has been known by that name since our great-grandparents' days."