V

INTO TROUBLE AND OUT


Amy Drew sat up in the canoe as high as she could and stared ahead.
Jessie's observation suggested trouble; but Amy almost immediately
burst out laughing.

"'Drowning!'" she repeated. "Why, Jess Norwood, you know that
you couldn't drown those Dogtown kids. And if that isn't some of
them--Monty Shannon, and the Costello twins, and the rest of them--I'm
much mistaken."

"But see those barrels and tubs and what-all!" gasped her more serious
friend. "Look there! It's Henrietta!"

The fleet of strange barges that Jessie had first spied included,
it seemed, almost every sort of craft that could be improvised. A
rainwater barrel led the procession of "boats," and Montmorency Shannon
was in that, paddling with some kind of paddle that he wielded with no
little skill.

There were two wooden washtubs in which the Costello twins voyaged.
One was much lower in the water than the other, giving evidence of
having shipped more water than its mate. In a water-trough that had
been filched from somebody's barnyard was little Henrietta and Charlie
Foley.

"They will be overboard!" exclaimed Jessie, anxiously. "Drive ahead,
Amy--do!"

The wind was blowing directly in their faces and from the direction of
the Dogtown landing, where the flotilla had evidently embarked. The
tubs spun around and around, the half-barrel in which Monty Shannon
sat tried to perform the same gyrations, but Henrietta and the Foley
boy blundered ahead. It was plain to Jessie's mind that the reckless
children could not have sailed in the other direction had they wished
to do so.

"What do you come out here for?" she shrieked when the canoe drew near.

"Oh, Miss Jessie, we are going to the Carter place," sang out Henrietta.

"But the Carter place is down the lake, not up!" exclaimed the
exasperated Jessie.

"Yes. But the wind shifted," said Henrietta.

"Where is your big canoe?" demanded Amy, who could scarcely paddle from
laughter, in spite of the evident danger the children were in.

"That is what we started after," said Montmorency Shannon, his red head
sticking out of the barrel like a full-blown holyhock. "It got away in
the night, or somebody let it go, and we saw it away down by the Carter
place. So--so we thought we'd go after it."

"And I warrant your mothers don't know what you are doing," Jessie said
sternly.

"Oh, they will!" cried Henrietta, virtuously.

"When they miss the washtubs," put in Amy, with laughter.

"When we tell 'em," corrected little Henrietta. "And we always tell 'em
everything we do."

"I see. After it is all over," Jessie commented.

"We-ell," said Henrietta, pouting, "we can't tell 'em what we have done
before we do it, can we? For we never know ourselves."

"You certainly cannot beat that for logic," declared Amy. She drove the
head of the canoe to the tub of the nearest Costello twin. "Get in here
carefully, Micky. You are going down."

"That's 'cause Aloysius always gets the best tub. _He_ ain't sinking
none," said Michael Costello, scowling at his twin.

"Quick!" commanded Amy, and the disgruntled Costello swarmed over
the side of the canoe. "We can take in one more. Who is the nearest
drowned?"

"I'm sitting in half a foot of water," confessed the red-haired
Shannon, grinning.

"A little soaking will do _you_ good. I can guess who suggested this
crazy venture," Jessie said. "Come, Henrietta."

"I need her to trim ship!" cried Charlie Foley.

"What do you want to trim your ship with--red, white and blue?"
demanded Amy. "If that trough sinks I know you can swim, Charlie."

The crowd would have had some difficulty in getting back to shore with
the wind blowing as freshly as it did if the girls had not come along
and, in relays, helped them all back.

"What Mrs. Shannon will say when she sees her two washtubs floating off
like that, I don't know," sighed Henrietta, after they were all ashore.

"One of 'em's sunk, so she can't see it," Micky Costello said calmly.
"Maybe the other will go down. Don't you big girls say anything and
maybe she won't find it out."

Jessie and Amy had headed for Dogtown in the first place without any
expectation of playing a life-saving part. Jessie thought they ought
to see Mrs. Foley, who was fleshy and easy of disposition, and ask her
about Henrietta's visit. So they accompanied the freckle-faced little
girl to the Foley house.

"I ain't telling 'em all they can come to visit my island, Miss
Jessie," said the little girl. "But of course, the Foleys could come.
Mrs. Blair and Bertha wouldn't mind just them, of course. There's only
Mrs. Foley and Charlie and Billy and the baby and three more boys
and--and--well, that's all, only Mr. Foley. He wouldn't want to come."

"You would better be sure of your island, and just how much you own
of it, Hen," advised Amy Drew. "It may not be big enough to hold
everybody you want to invite."

"Why, Miss Amy, it's a awful big island," declared little Henrietta.
"It's got a whole golf link on it. I heard Mr. Blair say so."

The "bulgy" Mrs. Foley welcomed the Roselawn girls with her usual
copiousness. Of course, she had the youngest Foley in her lap, and the
housework was "at sixes and sevens," since little Henrietta had been at
Stratfordtown for a week.

"How I'm going to git used, young ladies, to havin' that child away is
more than I can say. 'Tis a great mistake I have all boys for childers.
There is nothing like a smart girl around the house."

Jessie, very curious, asked the woman what she knew about Henrietta's
wonderful story of wealth.

"Sure, I've always expected it would come to her some day," declared
Mrs. Foley. "Her mother, who was a good neighbor of mine before we
moved out here to the lake, said Hen's father come of rich folks. They
used to drive their own carriage. That was before automobiles come in
so plenteous."

"Did Bertha ever say anything about it, Mrs. Foley?"

"Not much. 'Tis Hen will be the rich wan. Oh, yes. And glad I am if the
child is about to come into her own. She's no business to be running
down here every chance she gets. I had himself telephone to Bertha when
he went to town this morning, and it is likely she will be here after
the child. Hen's as wild as a hawk."

Bertha Blair, in fact, appeared in a hired car before Jessie and Amy
were ready to return in their canoe to Roselawn. She was quite as
excited as Henrietta had been about the strange fortune that promised
to come into their lives. Bertha could tell the chums from Roselawn
many more particulars of the Padriac Haney property.

"If little Henrietta will only be good and not be so wild and learn her
lessons and mind what she's told," Bertha said seriously, "maybe she
will have money and an island--or part of one, anyway. But she does not
behave very well. She is as wild as a March hare."

Little Henrietta looked serious for her; but Mrs. Foley took her part
at once.

"Sure don't be expectin' too much of the child at wance, Bertha. She's
run as wild as the wind itself here. She's fought and played with these
Dogtown kids since she was able to toddle around. What would ye expect?"

"But she must learn," declared the older girl. "Mrs. Blair won't take
us to the island this summer if she is not good."

"Then I'll go myself," announced Henrietta. "It's my island, ain't it?
Who has a better right there?"

Jessie took a hand at this point, shaking her head gravely at the
freckled little girl.

"Do you suppose, Henrietta Haney, that your friends--like Mrs. Foley or
Mrs. Blair, or even Amy and I--will want to come to your island to see
you if you are not a good girl?"

"Say, if I get rich can't I do like I want to--like other rich folks?"

"You most certainly cannot. Rich people, if they are to be loved, must
be even more careful in their conduct than poor folks."

"We-ell," confessed the freckled little girl frankly, "I'd rather be
rich than be loved. If I can't be both _easy_, I'll be rich."

"Such amazing worldliness!" sighed Amy, raising her hands in mock
horror.

But Jessie Norwood truly wished the little girl to be nice. Poor little
Henrietta, however, had much to unlearn. She chattered continually
about the island she owned and the riches she was to enjoy. The smaller
children of Dogtown followed her--and the green parasol--about as
though they were enchanted.

"'Tis a witch she certainly is," declared Mrs. Foley. "She's bewitched
them all, so she has. But I'm lost widout her, meself. When a woman
has six--and them all boys--and a man that drinks----"

This statement of her personal affairs had been so often heard by the
three girls that they all tried to sidetrack Mrs. Foley's complaint. It
was Jessie, however, who advanced a really good reason for getting out
of the Foley house.

"I promised Monty Shannon I would look at his radio set," she said,
jumping up. "You will excuse us for a little, Mrs. Foley? You are not
going back to Stratfordtown at once, Bertha?"

"Before long. I have only hired the car for the forenoon. The man has
another job this afternoon. And I must find that Henrietta again,"
for the freckle-faced little girl was as lively, so Amy said, as a
water-bug--"one of those skimmery things with long legs that dart along
the surface of the water."

The trio went out and across the cinder-covered yard to the Shannon
house. The immediate surroundings of Dogtown were squalid, although its
site upon the edge of Lake Mononset might have been made very pleasant
indeed.

"If these boys like Monty Shannon and some of the girls stay at home
when they grow up they surely will improve the looks of the village,"
Jessie had said. "For Monty and his kind are altogether too smart not
to want to live as other people do."

"You've said it," agreed Amy, with enthusiasm. "He _is_ smart. He has
a better radio receiver than you have. Wait till you see."

"How do you know?" asked the surprised Jessie.

"He was telling me about it. You know how often some 'squeak box,' or
other amateur operator, breaks in on our concerts."

"We-ell, not so often now," Jessie said. "I have learned more about
tuning and wave-lengths. But, of course, I have only a single circuit
crystal receiving set. I have been talking to Dad about getting a
better one."

"Monty will show you," Amy said with confidence, as they knocked at the
Shannon door.

The little cottage was small. Downstairs there were but two rooms. The
door gave access to the kitchen, and beyond was the "sitting-room,"
of which Monty's mother was inordinately proud. She was a widow, and
helped herself and her children by doing fine laundry work for the
wealthy people of New Melford.

From the front room when the girls entered came sounds that they
recognized--radio sounds which held their instant attention, although
they were merely market reports at that hour in the forenoon.

"Isn't it wonderful?" Bertha Blair said, clasping her hands. "I never
can get over the wonder of it."

"Same here," Amy declared. "When Jess and I listened to you singing the
'Will o' the Wisp' last night it seemed almost shivery that we should
recognize the very tones of your voice out of the air."

"Huh!" exclaimed Montmorency, grinning. "I got so I know the
announcers, too. When that Mr. Blair speaks I know him. Of course, I
know Mr. Mark Stratford's voice, for I've talked with him. I wouldn't
have such a fine machine here, only he advised me."

"Tell me," Jessie said, "what is the difference between my receiving
set and yours, Monty?"

"If you want to hear clearly and keep outside radio out of your
machine, use a regenerative radio set with an audion detector.
The whole business, Miss Jessie, is in the detector, after all.
A regenerative set of this kind is selective enough--that's the
expression Mr. Mark used--to enable any one to tune out all but a few
commercial stations. And they don't often butt in to annoy you. For
sure, you'll kill all the amateur squeak-boxes and other transmission
stations of that class.

"Now, I'm going to tune in for Stratfordtown. They are sending the
Government weather reports and mother wants to know should she water
her tomatoes or depend on a thunderstorm," and he grinned at Mrs.
Shannon, who stood, an awkward but smiling figure, in the doorway
between the two rooms.

"'Tis too wonderful a thing for me to understand, at all, at all,"
admitted the widow. "However can they tell you out of that machine
there is a thunderstorm coming?"

"Listen!" exclaimed the boy eagerly. There was a horn on the set and no
need for earphones. He had tuned the market reports out. From the horn
came a different voice. But the words the visitors heard had nothing to
do with the report on the weather. "What's the matter?" demanded Monty
Shannon. "Listen to this, will you?"

"... she will come home at once. This is serious--a serious call for
Bertha Blair."

"Do you hear that?" almost shrieked Amy Drew. "Why, it must mean you,
Bertha!"