XIV

SOMETHING NEW IN RADIO


The Stanleys arrived at Station Island the next day, the doctor having
arranged for a substitute preacher at the Roselawn Church for two
Sundays. The bungalow they had arranged to occupy was one of the colony
not far from the big house the Norwoods and their party were staying in.

Darry and Burd began to spend a good deal of their time on the yacht
after that first day. Amy accused her brother of being afraid of a
flank attack by Belle Ringold and Sally Moon, and he admitted that he
had hoped to escape those two "troublesome kids" when he came to the
island.

"I came here as the guest of little Hen Haney," he declared soberly.
"And I don't wish to be annoyed by any girls older than she is."

But he did not say this within Henrietta's hearing. The little girl
went around with a very long face indeed. She seemed to think that she
was going to lose her island. Even Nell Stanley, who was a general
comforter at most times, could not alleviate little Henrietta's woe.

With the coming of the Stanleys, however, Henrietta became less of a
trial to Jessie. For Sally Stanley was just about Henrietta's age and
the two children got along splendidly together.

Bob and Fred, those lively and ingenious youngsters, made their own
friends among the boys of the bungalow colony. The three girls from
Roselawn--Jessie, Amy, and Nell--found plenty to do and enjoyed
themselves thoroughly during the next few days. Being all interested in
radio they naturally spent sometime at Jessie's set. But unfortunately
it did not work as well here as it had at home.

"And I do not know why," Jessie ruminated. "I have been studying up
about it and the more I read the less I seem to know. There are so many
different opinions about how an amateur set should be built. Do you
know, sometimes I feel as though I should have an entirely different
kind of outfit. There is a new super-regenerative circuit that is being
talked about."

"But some people say it is not practicable for amateurs," broke in
Nell. "I've read so, anyway."

"I should like to talk with some professional--some radio expert--about
that," Jessie confessed. "If I had thought before we left home I would
have spoken to Mr. Blair."

"You'll have to wait until you get back, then," said Amy promptly.

"Why?" cried Nell suddenly. "There must be experts over at that
Government station."

"That is so," agreed Jessie, thoughtfully. "Do you suppose they
would----"

"Let's go and see," urged Nell. "I'm crazy to see the inside of that
station, anyway."

"It's wireless--like the little outfit aboard the _Marigold_," Amy
suggested.

"But so much bigger," Jessie chimed in eagerly. "If they admit
visitors, let's go."

Mr. Norwood found out about that particular point for the girls and
reported that if they went over to the station in the late afternoon
the operator on duty would be glad to show them "the works" and give
them all the information in his power.

The three friends went alone, for the collegians were off fishing that
day on the _Marigold_. They left the little girls in Mrs. Norwood's
care and slipped away about four o'clock and walked to the station,
which was some distance from the bungalow colony. They had to climb the
stairs in the old shaft of the lighthouse to the wireless room. The
room was half darkened and they heard the snapping of the spark, and
even saw the faint blue flash of it when they came to the door.

The operator, with his head harness on, was busy at his set. Jessie,
at least, had spent some time trying to learn the Morse code since
talking the matter over with Darry on the yacht. But although the
signals the operator received were in dots and dashes, she could not
understand a single thing.

"I am afraid it will take us a long time to learn," she said to Amy,
sighing. "We shall have to buy a regular telegraph set and learn in
that way."

"I wish you wouldn't talk about learning anything!" cried her chum.
"Vacation is slipping right away from us."

After a few moments the spark stopped snapping, the operator closed
his switch and removed his harness. He wheeled around on the
bench and welcomed them. He was really a very pleasant young man,
and he explained many things about both the radio-telegraph and
radio-telephone that the girls had not known before.

He was so friendly that Jessie ventured to ask him about the new
super-regenerative circuit in which she was interested.

"Yes. I'm strong for that new thing," said the wireless operator,
enthusiastically. "In the first place, it was invented by the man who
originated the ordinary regenerative circuit so much in use at present,
and also of the super-heterodyne circuit. I understand this new circuit
permits a current amplification up to a million times, and all with
three tubes. You know, to reach such a high mark with your ordinary
regenerative circuit, many more tubes would be necessary."

"I understand that," said Jessie. "But can an amateur build and
practically work this new circuit?"

"Why not? If you follow directions carefully. And with the new outfit
a loop is just as effective an antenna as an outside aerial. They say,
too, that to catch broadcasting for not more than twenty-five miles,
not even a loop is needed, the circuits themselves acting as the
absorbers of energy."

"I'm going to try it," declared Jessie, with more confidence. "But I
feel that I understand so little about the various forms of radio,
after all."

"You have nothing on me there," laughed the operator. "I am learning
something new all the time. And sometimes I am astonished to find out
how, after five years of work with it, I am really so ignorant."

The girls had a very interesting visit at the station; and from the
operator Jessie and Amy gained some particular instruction about
sending and receiving messages in the telegraph code. He received
several messages from ships at sea while the girls remained in the
station, and likewise relayed other messages received from inland
stations both up and down the coast and to vessels far out at sea.

"It is a wonderful thing," said Nell, as the girls walked homeward.
"I never realized before how great an influence wireless already was
in commercial life. Why, how did the world ever get along without it
before Marconi first thought of it?"

"How did the world ever get along without any other great invention?"
demanded Amy. "The sewing machine, for instance. I've got to run up
a seam in one of my sports skirts, for there is no tailor, they say,
nearer than the hotel. I do wish a sewing machine had been included in
the furnishings of your bungalow, Jess. I hate to sew by hand."

The boys had come in before the Roselawn girls returned for dinner,
and they were very enthusiastic over a plan for taking a part of the
bungalow crowd on an extended sailing trip. They had met Dr. Stanley
walking the beaches, and he had expressed a desire to go to sea for a
day or two, and at once Darry and Burd had conceived a plan for the
young folks to be included.

"The doctor is a good enough chaperon," said Darry, with a laugh. "Nell
shall come. Her Aunt Freda will be down to look after the children."

"And Henrietta?" asked Jessie, hesitatingly.

"For pity's sake!" cried Darry, in some impatience. "Don't be tied down
to that kid all the time. You'd think you were a grandmother."

"Well, I like that!" exclaimed Jessie. "I'm not sure that I want to go
on your old yacht, Darry Drew."

"Aw, Jess----"

"Well, I'll think about it," murmured Jessie, relenting.