XXII

  “_Some people’s born with the notion that for sharpness they’ve got
  the rest o’ the world tied hand an’ foot; and they are sharp, in
  their way--but they don’t weigh much._”--CHIP NOLAN’S REMARKS.

  “_The cool shades of evening their mantles were spreading,
  And Maggie, all smiling, was listening to me,
  The moon through the valley her pale light was shedding,
  When I won the heart of the rose of Tralee._”

                                                  OLD SONG.


CLANCY was reading the news of the convention in the evening paper
behind his counter; the rush was over for the night, and he pulled at
his pipe contentedly, for O’Hara had failed to keep his threat, and
Clancy fancied that his creditor had thought better of it.

“Sure, Young Murphy is the b’y for thim,” said Clancy, as he finished
the account. It was a McQuirk sheet and lauded that gentleman’s action
to the skies. Its story of the convention teemed with such phrases as
“Magnificent battle against organized greed,” “Opponent of municipal
corruption,” “Able friend of the working class,” etc. “But, divil take
thim,” continued the grocer, “yez’d t’ink, from this, that McQuirk done
it all.”

He adjusted his steel-rimmed glasses and was about to resume his
reading when a step sounded upon the floor and a shadow fell across the
newspaper; looking up he saw O’Hara.

“Good avenin’,” said the visitor. “I wur passin’ an’ t’ought I’d drop
in on yez.”

“An’ welcome,” said Clancy, but his looks belied his tongue.

“Yez towld me this mornin’, Mr. Clancy,” said O’Hara, “that yez could
not pay me the troifle av money yez owe me.”

“An’ I towld yez the truth.”

“On con-sider-rayshun av yez bein’ an ’owld frind av mine,” said
O’Hara, “I have daysided till give yez back the note, widout the payin’
av a cint--upon wan condition.”

“Give me back me note!” Clancy could not believe his ears.

“Upon wan condition,” repeated O’Hara.

“An’ wat’s that?”

“That yez give yez consint till Annie’s marriage wid young McGonagle.”

Clancy looked thunderstruck; he gazed at the other with mingled wonder
and anger.

“What call have yez till meddle wid me family affairs?” demanded he,
indignantly. “An’ what rayson have ye till be pullin’ wid McGonagle?”

“Sorra the t’ing hav that till do wid it. Give yez consint, an’ I will
give ye a raysate for the money ye owe me the minyute the marriage
lines are wrote.”

Clancy’s objection to Goose was solely because of his poverty, but
a son-in-law with money could do no more than pay off his debt, so
the grocer figured it out, and the reluctance with which he at last
consented to O’Hara’s proposition was more assumed than real.

“The ceremony must take place t’morry,” said O’Hara.

“I have no objection till offer,” said Clancy, resignedly.