THE door bell of Larry’s home at the end of Murphy’s Court kept up an
almost constant ringing next morning, and old Mrs. Coogan’s breath grew
short through answering the calls.

First it was McGonagle and Larkin, dressed in their best, with beaming
faces and movements of suppressed excitement.

“Everyt’ing’s all to the velvet,” said Goose airily. “The girls have
been up and dressed since five o’clock, and Father Dawson’ll do his
turn at eleven, sharp.”

“Say, Larry,” put in Jimmie, “one bridesmaid’s goin’ to do for both;
who d’youse t’ink it is?”

“I don’t know,” replied Larry.

“It’s Maggie Dwyer,” said Jimmie. “Say, there’s a girl for yer life!
She’s got ’em all tied hand an’ foot.”

“If there was no Annie,” remarked Goose, “and I had the drag with
Maggie that youse have, why her name’d be McGonagle in short order,
le’me tell ye that.”

“G’way,” said Larry. “Quit yer stringin’.”

“This is on the level,” insisted McGonagle. “I’ve heard it talked about
for years. Everybody in the ward knowed that she wanted ye,--everybody
but yerself. But, say, youse seemed so dead leary about the t’ing that
nobody had the nerve to say anyt’ing to youse.”

After the two young men departed, a perfect stream of reporters began
to call, all anxious to get Larry’s views upon the political situation;
and when this had subsided, Mason and Kerrigan came in, to talk over
yesterday and confer about to-morrow.

“Did youse see McQuirk since yesterday?” asked Larry, after some time
spent in this fashion.

“No,” answered Kerrigan, “but I received a note from him late last
night, asking me to call upon him this afternoon.”

Larry nodded. “I was at his house when he wrote it,” said he. “Youse
don’t need to worry any about him; he’s right in line. He kin carry the
ward, with youse on the ticket, hands down. And that’s McQuirk’s game,
every time. As long as he’s on the side that wins he can make good, ye
know, and any time they need the ward in a deal they have to come to
him with the money.”

“Owen Dwyer seems to think,” said Mason, “that the election is only a
matter of the size of Kerrigan’s majority.”

“That’s right,” said Larry. “In this ward, and in all the others for
that matter, the fightin’s done at the primaries; the guy what’s
named in the regular way by the party what runs the ward, has got the
election cinched.”

When he and Mason were ready to go, Kerrigan said:

“I am glad that Nolan and Ferguson came out of their matter all right.
I know Cullen, one of the doctors at St. Mary’s, and he told me that
Mart Kelly’s condition, while painful, is not necessarily serious.”

“O’Connor an’ Gartenheim talked to McQuirk,” said Larry; “and McQuirk
squared it all right at the front office. They had to give bail but the
case’ll never come to trial, because Jim Kelly won’t push it; he knows
what Mart was done up for, and he dasn’t.”

“McGonagle tells me that things are all O. K. in his matter,” remarked
Kerrigan, as they stood upon the steps, Larry in the doorway. “I’ll be
on hand promptly at noon to attend to my end of it.”

Larry closed the door after they had departed and returned to the
sitting room. He was glad that matters political had turned out as
they did--but only because it would prevent the loss of Owen Dwyer’s
savings, and thereby please Maggie--outside of that he seemed to have
lost all zest of the battle, all exultation in the victory.

Maggie was in his thoughts, Maggie and Maggie only. Since his talk
with her the morning before, she seemed to have grown nearer to him.
He did not dream that this was caused by a lessening of his sense of
inferiority--by a gradual growth of faith in himself, which had its
conception in the hardly realized fact that he had been the dominant
spirit in a matching of wits which, in result, meant not a little to
her.

He only thought of her kind manner, her smile and invitation to call
again; he only remembered Kerrigan’s half-jesting remark after they
had left the house. And then there were McGonagle’s words; Goose was a
friend of his and would not deceive him. He had said that Maggie was
not indifferent! Could this be so? Had he been so blind, so full of
self-pride as to not see it? Could it be that the aloofness with which
he had long secretly charged her had all been of his own doing? It is
not often that a man wishes himself in the wrong; but that, at this
moment, was Larry’s most earnest desire.

“I’ll settle it to-night,” he said to himself. “I’ll brace up and give
her a chance to flag me.”

Half past eleven saw Larry hurrying toward Clancy’s. Two of O’Connor’s
hacks were drawn up at the curb before the grocery, from one of which
McGonagle and Larkin were assisting Rosie, Annie and Maggie. Clancy and
O’Hara were alighting from the second, which they had shared with the
two bridegrooms; a flock of marvelling children were gathered upon the
sidewalk; and the heads of their elders were popping out of windows and
doorways full of wonder and surprise.

Larry raised his hat and took the hand which Maggie offered him.

“I’m sorry,” said she, “that I can’t remain to see the result of your
planning. It is very clever!” Larry caught the look in her eyes and it
said as plainly as words that it was no more than she had expected of
him. A sudden tumult was raised in his breast and perhaps he pressed
her hand a little; at any rate she flushed and withdrew it quickly.

“I must get back to my class before the morning session is over,”
she continued. “The principal would only give me an hour’s leave of
absence.”

“I’m comin’ to see you to-night,” said he, courageously.

He did not even ask her permission! She gasped a little, in surprise,
but laughed as though she liked it.

“I shall be at home,” said she. Then she kissed the two girls.
“Good-by, I shall run around this afternoon to see you both, and,” with
a sly glance at O’Hara, “to hear of the fun.”

When she had gone, Larry followed the others into the house, Mrs.
Clancy embraced Annie and sobbed; then Annie and Rosie began to sob
also, while Goose and Jimmie looked uncomfortably at one another, each
with a feeling of guilt heavy upon him.

“Here is yez raysate, Mister Clancy,” said O’Hara, handing the grocer a
slip of paper. “It’s a man av me word I am.”

“Youse’ll get your cash, as soon as the fortune comes along, O’Hara,”
McGonagle informed him reassuringly.

It was at this point that Kerrigan walked into the room.

“It’s a queer thing to do right after a wedding,” said the young
attorney, after he had congratulated the happy couples, “but the fact
is, Mr. Clancy, I am here to read a will. And as all the persons spoken
of in the document are present, I will, with your permission, get down
to business.”

He took a neatly folded paper from his breast pocket.

“The will,” he continued, “is that of the late Honora Cassidy,
spinster.”

“Ah! Ah!” exclaimed Clancy, striking the table with his fist; “Now
we’ll know the rights av it. Faith an’ I knew Honora had money.”

“So it’s Honora Cassidy that yez meant?” said O’Hara looking at
Larry. Then he turned to Kerrigan. “Sure, I wur acquainted wid her in
Skibereen whin I wur a young felly.”

“I am aware of the fact,” returned Kerrigan, dryly. “The document reads
this way:

“I, Honora Cassidy, being in sound physical and mental health, do make
this my last will and testament. Having remained a spinster up to this
date and recognizing the emptiness and loneliness of such a state, I,
in this instrument, do all in my power to prevent my half-brother’s
child, Annie Clancy, from following my example.

“With this end in view I bequeath all my estate, both real and
personal, with Charles Mason as Trustee, to the man who marries the
said Annie Clancy, on the condition that the ceremony is performed
within thirty (30) days after my decease.”

“Ha! An’ so yez knew av this, O’Hara!” exclaimed Clancy. “Yez knew av
it an’ played me the darty trick till git yez money out av McGonagle!”

“A stroke av business, Clancy,” murmured O’Hara soothingly, “A mere
stroke av business, sir.”

“But say, Kerrigan,” put in Larry, with great innocence, “if Annie
hadn’t got married within the thirty days?--what then?”

“Then,” replied the attorney, referring to the will, “the estate would
have gone to the only man who ever made a proposal of marriage to the
deceased--and whom she refused.”

Larry had his eyes fixed upon O’Hara, who at these words, started
suddenly, and sat bolt upright.

“An’ who wur that, Johnnie?” asked Mrs. Clancy, who, womanlike, felt a
great curiosity upon this point.

“Our esteemed friend, Malachi O’Hara.”

“What!” shrieked Clancy, leaping to his feet. “D’yez mane till say,
Goose, me b’y, that yez made the owld harp do himself out av a fort’in?”

“Not me,” said McGonagle, modestly; “it was Murphy.”

O’Hara had slowly arisen, his dumpy form quivering, his face crimson
with wrath.

“It wur a conspiracy!” exclaimed he, thumping the floor with his cane;
“a conspiracy to defraud me out av me possible roights!”

“’Twur a nate bit av wurk,” cried Clancy, enthusiastically shaking his
son-in-law by the hand. “An’ I forgi’ yez for my part av it. Sure, yez
are all great b’ys together!”

O’Hara continued to stamp about the room; Rosie wept on Jimmie’s
shoulder, frightened at her father’s anger. At last the second-hand
dealer grabbed up his hat and made for the door.

“Come home wid me, Rosie!” commanded he. “Don’t be stayin’ here till
see yez father chated an’ robbed.”

“She’ll go home with me, after this,” said Jimmie Larkin, as he fondly
kissed the tears from her cheek.

“Thin, the divil do her good av ye!” O’Hara swept the room with a
stormy glance. “It’s the law I’ll have on yez,” foamed he, “Ivery wan
av yez’ll sup sorra for yez divilment, raymimber that!”

And he banged the door after him and was gone.