XVII

  “_Dull rogues affect the politician’s part,
  And learn to nod, and smile, and shrug with art._”

                                           CONGREVE.


IT was the evening of the primaries and the opposing factions were
lined up for the battle that would decide who was to be the party’s
standard-bearer within the limits of the ward. The workers had made a
door-to-door canvass, pleading eloquently with some, making a vague
statement of principles to others, hinting at “prospective jobs” to
more. A great deal depended upon the person, and the heelers were
supposed to have the voters in their precincts gauged to a nicety.

Tim Burns was eating his supper of potatoes and eggs at the kitchen
table, together with his wife and two children, when a knock came upon
the door.

“Come in,” called Tim.

It was Gratten Haley, candidate for school director and--McQuirk!

“Hello Tim,” greeted Haley, cheerily, “feedin’ your face?”

“God bless uz an’ save us, Mr. McQuirk,” ejaculated Mrs. Burns,
confused at the sight of the ward’s great man. “Here Xavier, git down
wid yez at wanst, an’ give the gintleman yez sate.”

She dumped her eldest son unceremoniously from his chair and dusted it
with her apron. But McQuirk re-seated the boy and shoved the chair back
to the table.

“Pitch in, son,” advised he, heartily. He speared an egg with a fork
and placed it on the child’s plate. “Go to work,” said he. He rumpled
the youngster’s hair and turned to Mrs. Burns. “This must be a fast
day,” remarked he.

“There’s two this week, so they give out from the altar on Sunday,”
answered Mrs. Burns; “an’ a body’s lost widout the bit av mate, after
workin’ all day.”

Mr. Haley stood in the background, near the range, pulling slowly at a
fat black cigar, and gazing at his leader admiringly. “For star plays,”
muttered he with ecstasy, to himself, “run me against McQuirk. He’s a
miracle!”

The feminine and juvenile side of the house surrendered without firing
a shot; but Tim was made of different stuff and had a long memory. He
glowered at his plate from under his brows and caused buttered wedges
of bread and saucers of tea to disappear with startling rapidity.

“Got plenty to do, Tim?” McQuirk stood with his back to the range and
tugged at the spike-like points of his moustache.

“Lots av it--_now_!” Tim put a great deal of emphasis on the last word
so that the boss might not misunderstand.

“The delegates are named to-night,” interrupted the candidate for
school director, hurriedly, “and the town will be jammed with
conventions to-morrow, all the way from members o’Congress to,”
modestly, “school director.”

“I know,” said Mr. Burns.

“I want your support!” said McQuirk, bluntly. “There’s a movement to
wall me up in me own division by a gang o’ would-be reformers; and I
want all me friends to stand by me.”

“So yez want me vote?” asked Tim, as he wiped his mouth on a corner of
the table-cloth and pushed back his chair.

“Sure; you’ve voted with the party ever since you got out your papers,
an’ you’re entitled to a say in the primaries.”

“Have a cigar,” invited Haley, as Burns got up.

“I’ll smoke me poipe,” said Tim. He took it down from a shelf and
knocked out the “heel” on the edge of the range, then proceeded to cut
a fresh charge from a plug of “Rough and Ready,” with his pocket knife.

“I’m a Dimmycrat,” said Tim, “an’ plaze God, I’ll always stay wan.”

The boss beamed approval. “Now look here,” said he, “you know McAteer,
don’t you? Well this other crowd want to do him out of the nomination
because he sticks like glue to the party, see? Old Owen Dwyer’s on the
ticket, instructed for him; so give Owen your support, eh?”

“McAteer,” spoke Mr. Burns, “is an able man, an’ Owen Dwyer, is a
daysint wan, an’ a friend av my own.”

“So he is; you’re right, Tim! And then there’s Abrams for judge--Jimmie
Hurley stands for him. Abrams is a sheeney, but he’s all right.”

“I’m agin no man because he sticks till what his father wur before him.”

“And there’s Kelly for select--a neighbour of yours; and here’s Haley
for school director.”

“I knew yez father,” said Tim to Haley; “he wur a United man, an’ an A.
O. H., so I’ll do what I can till give his son a boost. But for James
Kelly--never!” Tim smacked his hands together loudly. “Gartenheim gits
me vote; for he give me a job av work when the rist av yez passed me
by!”

“Don’t let any o’ those young fellows jolly you, Tim; for they’re goin’
to git it in the neck, sure! Kelly’s the man! He’s the only one that
can hold the workers, for he stands in with the mayor. He can git jobs.”

“I’ve heard that afore now,” remarked Tim, stubbornly. McQuirk touseled
up the eldest boy’s head once more and also shook hands with the
mother.

“Gartenheim’s name won’t be mentioned,” prophesied he as he buttoned up
his light overcoat and paused at the door. “Stand in with the party,
that’s the thing, eh, Mrs. Burns? The right kind o’ people never
forgets who puts them in office. Do what’s regular, Tim, that’s all
I ask, do what’s regular; vote to hold the organization together and
keep the snide reformers out. And, remember, we’ve got a congressman
to elect, the only one o’ the right stripe in the city.” He opened the
door and stood aside while Haley stepped out. “Good night, Tim; I just
thought I’d drop in and talk to you about the thing. No harm done?”

“Not a bit,” answered Mr. Burns, “Good night.”

And so it went from house to house, from alley to alley, from division
to division through the ward. McQuirk did not trust himself in the
hands of his workers; he saw the voters in person, raised the standard
and appealed to the partisanship that is born in every man; and so if
there was glory to be gained, he was the gainer; if there was a harvest
of defeat to reap, it was not because of lack of personal attention on
his part.

Politics had been McQuirk’s study for years, and he had been an apt
scholar. He knew nothing of the profundity of statesmanship, and cared
less; he had never made a speech upon his feet, and could not had his
life depended upon it. But what he did not know of practical politics,
as his friend Moran was in the habit of saying, was not worth knowing.
He possessed a genius for organization: in getting out the full vote he
was unexcelled, and he dominated the freemen of his district by one of
three things: Favour--the expectation of favour--the fear of disfavour.

There were people in the ward that had known him when he was a
dump-cart driver, and others who remembered a later period when his
only visible means of support was Sunday poker-playing in the parlours
of social clubs. Then he became a political hanger-on; he fetched and
carried for the powers that were and by his astuteness gained their
favour. Little by little he rose in power, and at length, was sent,
under orders, to represent his division in the ward committee. From
that time he grew visibly; his name began to appear in the political
columns of the Sunday papers and he took to wearing a silk hat. Then
came the revolt of a clique of workers that presaged disaster to the
ward machine; McQuirk saw his opportunity, threw himself at the head
of the insurgents and in a desperate battle of the ballots, came off
victorious. His old benefactors were driven to the wall and ruthlessly
knifed, and McQuirk stood at the head of the committee in the pivotal
ward of the district.

With a solid phalanx of admirers and a chain of supporting social
clubs behind him, he soon made himself manifest; controlling the most
powerful subdivision of the organization, he held the balance of power
and was courted and feared. He walked into his first ward convention
with his breast pocket stuffed with proxies and dictated the nomination
of his bitterest foe; then he threw his strength, in secret, with an
independent movement and buried the said foe under an avalanche of
ballots that effectually stripped him of his dangerous qualities. As
Mr. Haley had remarked, McQuirk was a miracle.

James Kelly was sweating blood and spending money, provided by the
Motor Traction Company, right and left, to accomplish his nomination.
The back room of his saloon, turned into a campaign headquarters, had
for weeks been a vortex of activity. The air was never clear of cigar
smoke, or the table of beer bottles. Kelly, aided by that rising young
politician, Gratten Haley, Nobby Foley and his son, had canvassed the
ward from end to end. This did him some good; but vastly greater than
their combined exertions was the fact that the boss favoured him--that
he was the choice of the machine.

“That mocaraw,” said McQuirk, on Tuesday morning as he stood in Moran’s
“court,” “has queered the whole shooting match! He’ll have every voter
out to-night, either for him or against him, and that’ll bring our
other people into the fight.”

“He ain’t got no gumption,” remarked the magistrate tipping himself
back in his office chair, and loosening the foil covering of a paper of
fine cut. “The old way’s the best. Keep quiet and on the night of the
primaries half of them will forget it, and the other half won’t bother
their heads. Enough picked people to elect each delegate is all we
want; when the whole crowd starts to chip in, it keeps you guessing.”

“That’s what! It’s time enough to make a hurrah and shoot off the
sky-rockets when the convention’s over and your slate’s all to the
good; you’re fresh for the fight, then; but when there’s a preliminary
about who’ll carry the flag, it makes hard feelings; and a man who
would turn out with the gang, with a torch dropping grease down his
back, in the first place, wouldn’t show up in the second even if you
promised to put him under a plug hat and on top of a horse ahead of the
band.”

Moran nodded his approval of this piece of political sagacity; McQuirk
buttoned up his coat.

“I’ve fixed it,” said the latter, “so that if anybody’s pinched they’ll
be run over here in the wagon. Be sure you have somebody to bail them
out if you can’t discharge them.”

“That’ll be all right. I’ll have Pete Slattery hangin’ around
somewhere; he’ll do for a few more, yet.”

Here the magistrate laughed, but the boss looked glum.

“That young Murphy,” said he, “is bothering me some. I don’t like the
way he is jumping into this thing. He’s sore on Kelly, eh?”

“I should say so! He’d give him the knife in a minute. Say,” continued
Moran, suddenly, “ain’t you on the wrong track, McQuirk? You don’t want
to make an enemy of Murphy, he’s growin’ up and beginning to take
notice, don’t you know? Keep him in line; one young one’s as good as a
half dozen old ones, and they do more and don’t ask as much. Ain’t that
right?”

The boss looked at his watch, snapped the case shut, and dropped it
into his pocket.

“I’m going down to the Precinct Club,” said he. “The committee holds a
pow-wow there in half an hour, and I must make good.”

“But, say,” went on the magistrate tenaciously, “what’s the good word,
Mac? Sling me a line on it, so’s I can put the boys next. Is it Kelly
or nothin’? Or is it Kelly if we can?”

McQuirk cleared his throat and twisted his fingers among the links of
his watch chain. He was not revolving a decision--that had been made
weeks ago. He merely wanted his honour to draw his answer more from his
manner than his words. He had seen political friendships broken before
now; and he had also seen men’s words, quoted in fat type, posted upon
fences.

“We’ll do what we can for Kelly,” said he, “yes, we’ll do all we can
for him.”

Moran smiled when his visitor left, and caressed his dyed moustache.

“Just as foxy!” murmured he. “It’ll be a slick member that ever makes
_him_ slip his hold, and that’s no dream. If Murphy draws the most
water why Kelly gets entered among the also rans, that’s all.”

Not many members of the Aurora Borealis Club who had entered the
political arena against Kelly had gone to work that day. Some were
canvassing their divisions for votes or information, and others lounged
about the club rooms, ready for anything that might turn up. Larry
Murphy, wearing a deep black band about his hat, dropped in during the
morning.

“We’re goin’ to do him,” said Larry, after a long talk with his
friends. “If anybody ever needed a lickin’, it’s Mart Kelly. He wants
it bad!”

“I heard Mary prayed for in church on Sunday,” said Jerry, with a
glance at the mourning band.

“Sure,” said Larry. “But she don’t need it, though,” he added
reverently.

“If we all stood as good as her,” remarked McGonagle, “we’d be all
right. Me mother was makin’ a novena for her when she died. She
t’ought she’d get better.”

“Tell her I’m much obliged,” said Larry. “Your mother always liked
Mary.” After a pause he said: “I’m goin’ out to see what’s doin’. Don’t
loaf, gents, keep the t’ing goin’.”

After he had gone McGlory asked.

“Did any o’ youse fella’s hear the new one?”

“Bat it out,” requested McGonagle.

“One o’ Rosie O’Hara’s aunts was to see me mother last night, and it
was the first time she was ever in our house, for her and me mother
can’t hit it. I was out at the time--over to see Veronica, ye know--but
I heard all about it at breakfast-time next mornin’.”

“Well, chop it off!” urged McGonagle, impatiently. “Don’t wait until
I’m grey-headed. Bat it out.”

“Larry and Rose is goin’ to run double.”

“G’way!” Goose stared at his friend, amazedly. “It must be a roast.
Murphy was a friend o’ Larkin’s; he wouldn’t play him dirt like that!”

“What’s Larkin got to do with it?”

“Why him an’ Rose was engaged--on the quiet, ye know.”

“Whew!” Jerry whistled through his teeth and frowned across the table
at the other. “I’ll bet the best skate we’ve got in the stable that
Murphy don’t know a thing about it.”

“But Rose does! She’s give Jimmie the ice-house laugh, that’s what
she’s done; he’s only a sparrer, an’ Murphy’s got the money, see? I
never put me lamps on a woman yet that wasn’t daffy after a guy what’s
got a wad o’ rags.”

Danny Casey who sat by a window, emerged from behind his newspaper,
took his feet from the sill, and observed:

“There seems to be lots o’ new t’ings chasin’ around. When I heard that
Dick Nolan and Roddy Ferguson had made up, ye cud a-knocked me down
with a straw; but when I seen them workin’ together against Kelly, why,
say, I almost fainted.”

“That _was_ a funny t’ing,” agreed McGonagle. “I tried to pump Roddy,
but he was dead dry. But, say, it’ll be a good snap for us all, eh?
Nolan’s ace high with Gartenheim, and if he kin coax him to step out,
and give O’Connor a push, Kelly’ll be a dead cock in the pit.”

Casey shook his head doubtfully. He felt that Goose’s hopes were a
trifle too roseate.

“Dick pulls some weight wit’ the old man,” admitted he; “but he can’t
do all that. I tell youse Gartenheim’s too sore on O’Connor to turn in
for him. Stick to Murphy’s lay-out; we’ve got the best chance there.
When we spring it, take me word for it, the whole shootin’ match’ll
stand up on their hind legs.”

“Youse might be right; I only hope ye are,” said Jerry. “Anyhow let’s
go down the line; we ain’t doin’ no good holdin’ down chairs around
here. I want to see old man Hoffer and a lot more guys; they’re friends
o’ the old man’s and I want to sling ’em a breeze.”

When seven o’clock drew on the division houses were wide open; the
special policemen and ward workers were clustered in the doorways and
were aghast at the magnitude of the vote called out by the conflicting
efforts of Kelly and his opponents; it was as heavy as that of a
general election and stood unprecedented in their experience. McQuirk,
in a silk hat and with a cigar between his teeth, was going from
division to division, in one of McGrath’s hacks; his subordinates
worked zealously with the vote, feeling that their future weal depended
upon the impression that they made.

Clancy came through McGarragles’ Alley and turned down the avenue
toward the polling place of his division; his white apron was tucked up
about his waist and he carried a ballot fluttering between his fingers.
Murphy who stood by the curb, watching things, and sending out his aids
to drag voters from their suppers, at once pounced upon the grocer.

“Just a second, Clancy!” besought he.

A stout man with a red face protested.

“Ah, let the man be!” requested he. “The polls’ll be closed in a little
while. Go ahead and vote, Clancy!”

“Close yer face, will youse? I’m doin’ this.”

“An’ yer makin’ a mess of it, too. Youse people’ll split the ticket,
and we’ll get it good and hard, like last time.”

“I take notice youse have all turned in for de guy what licked youse;
youse fellas would cap for McQuirk to beat yer own gran’father.”

Murphy was about to unmask his batteries and wither the red-faced man
with sarcasm when Clancy interrupted him.

“What d’yez want av me?” asked he.

“Yer got a pink ticket there. Just open it and paste this sticker over
Pete Slattery’s name.”

“Divil the bit! Sure, Slattery’s a friend av mine, an’ a customer.”

“But, say, he’s for Kelly! Ye ain’t goin’ to help that slob to lick us,
are ye?”

“For Kelly! Begorry, they niver towld me that. Where’s yez sticker?
Divil a boost’ll I give a man that’s for James Kelly.”

A deep murmur that swelled into a smothered roar came from the cigar
store where the balloting was being held. A dense group of excited,
gesticulating workers were gathered about the table; in their midst
stood two men, their noses almost together, their faces pale, their
voices high-pitched and angry.

“Ye don’t vote, see,” declared one. “Ye ain’t got no vote, here, and
that goes.”

“I’m as good a Democrat as youse,” maintained the other, “you’re a
mugwump, ye stiff!”

“You’re a liar!”

In an instant they had clinched and were making maddened efforts to
strike. A policeman rushed in, tore them apart and hustled one out upon
the sidewalk. Murphy desperately forced his way through the crowd; he
saw a vote being lost to his faction, and the sight aroused all his
combativeness.

“Let him go,” commanded he. “He didn’t do nothin’, Callahan!”

Officer Callahan turned with upraised club. “I’ll break your face!”
growled he, “I’m dead onto you, anyhow.”

There was no telling to what extreme the young man would have gone, had
not McGonagle and some others pulled him away.

“Youse must be daffy!” exclaimed Goose, “D’ye want to play right into
their hands? Every copper around the booth’s a Kelly man and they’ll
rope in us people if we look cross-eyed; and then we’ll get the wrong
end of it, sure.”

“The wagon’s been out t’ree times in Tom Hogan’s precinct,” said
another, “they’re challengin’ all our people and t’rowin’ ’em down--an’
givin’ ’em a ride if they kick.”

“I know’d Hogan’d get the goose if he’d go against Daily alone.
Somebody go down and help him out”; continued Murphy. “Hully Gee, we
gotta’ hold ’em safe down there, it’s our strongest graft, and we can’t
afford to be gold-bricked, gents.”

“It’s too late,” spoke McGonagle, looking at his open-faced watch; “the
polls’ll be closed in a quarter of an hour.”

Jerry McGlory dashed up in his father’s falling-top buggy.

“Anything doing?” asked he.

“It’s all done,” answered Larry.

“How’s the vote?”

“Heavy as lead.”

“They’re doin’ us dirt,” said McGlory, bitterly. “They’re pullin’ our
vote, an’ holdin’ ’em for a hearin’ in the mornin’. They took twelve
out o’ Mason’s precinct since seven o’clock!”

“Move over,” said Larry. He and McGonagle jumped into the carriage
beside Jerry, as he continued: “Now throw it into that old skate o’
yourn for all yer worth.”

“Which way?” asked McGlory.

“Up to Moran’s,” answered his friend. “He’s goin’ to do somethin’
damned quick, or the next guy he holds for a hearin’ ’ll have done
somethin’ to be held for!”