IT was a beautiful night; the moon was sailing through the heavens
attended by countless myriads of jewel-like stars; the breeze rustled
gently through the street, and as Larry neared Maggie’s home he caught
the soft notes of an old, old song.

Owen sat upon the step, enjoying the fineness of the night, and as the
young man came up he arose and gripped him by the hand.

“God bless ye, Larry,” said he, with a subdued emotion rare in the
Celt. “God bless ye for what yez done for me and mine! I niver towld
Maggie till the day, but iv Kelly had won, it’s find another home we’d
had till do, for ivery dollar I could rake an’ scrape were in that
stock. I took a great risk, b’y, I see it now; but it wur all for her
sake, Larry, all for her sake.”

Larry entered, leaving the old man smoking peacefully upon the steps.
The hallway was dim, and he walked softly to avoid knocking against
things. But a shaded lamp threw a soft light about the parlour, and he
paused in the doorway to listen to the faint music and the words of the
song. Maggie sat at the piano, her back toward him; she was dressed in
white, clinging stuff that displayed the full charm of her fine figure;
her fingers touched the keyboard lightly, caressingly and she sang in a
subdued, brooding way:

  “_Oh promise to meet me when twilight is falling,
    Beside the blue waters that slumber so fair,
  Each bird in the meadow your name will be calling,
    And every sweet rose-bud will look for you there._”

She paused, her fingers still straying over the keys, and Larry took up
the song:

  “_In morning and evening for you I am sighing,
    The heart in my bosom is yours evermore,
  I’ll watch for you, darling, when daylight is dying,
    Sweet rose of Killarney, Mavourneen asthore._”

She arose and slowly turned toward him. Her face was rosy, her eyes
shining with a light that was good to see.

He advanced half way, then paused, his arms outstretched. She
understood, on the instant, and came the remainder of the way; then the
strong arms were around her and he had kissed her upon the lips.

“When shall it be?” he asked, in a masterful way.

“Not for a long, long time,” she answered. “Remember Mary!”

“I’ll never forget her.” His eyes were dim with feeling.

“Poor Mary,” whispered Maggie, softly. “Dear, sweet, gentle Mary!”


THE END




  RECENT
  PUBLICATIONS
  _of_
  McClure, Phillips
  & Co.

  [Illustration]

  _New York_
  1901-1902




By Joel Chandler Harris

GABRIEL TOLLIVER

[Illustration]

THIS is by far the most mature and important work that Mr. Harris has
yet given us. Like _David Copperfield_, _Gabriel Tolliver_ is intensely
personal, and is practically the story of Mr. Harris’ own boyhood
experiences. In so far as its setting is concerned it is a novel of
Reconstruction in the South. It is the most perfect picture in fiction
of those disheartening days following the war, when the Southern
States seemed likely to sink into anarchy through the corruption of
the carpet-baggers. In the midst of such conditions, and the quaint,
unprogressive life of the little Georgia community, Shady Dale, a
beautiful study of boy and girl love is developed and carried to a
happy conclusion after exciting adventures on the part of the hero,
who is falsely accused of the murder of a Government agent engaged in
inciting the negro population to violence against the whites.

$1.50




By S. R. Crockett

Author of “The Stickit Minister,” “The Black Douglas,” “The Firebrand,”
etc.

THE BANNER OF BLUE

[Illustration]

IN _The Banner of Blue_ Mr. Crockett offers a new version of that most
wonderful of parables, the prodigal son. Against the sombre background
of the Disruption Period in Scotland he draws with a master hand two
brilliantly colored love-stories, the one intense to its tragic end,
the other delightful in its quaint Scotch humor. The character-drawing
possesses in particular the quality of nearness and reality, and he who
reads must suffer with the proud Lord of Gower in the downfall of his
idolized son, laugh with Veronica Cæsar in her philosophical bearing of
domestic burdens and tyranny, and share with John Glendonwyn his love
for the will-o’-the-wisp sweetheart, Faerlie Glendenning. That part of
the story dealing with the separation of church and state calls forth
not only the strongest but the most picturesque traits of the Scottish
people.

$1.50




By Mary Stewart Cutting

LITTLE STORIES OF MARRIED LIFE

[Illustration]

MRS. CUTTING begins where other storytellers leave off. Marriage is a
very general experience, and the married in actual life seem as much
alive as other people; but in literature they generally pass out of any
existence worth the name when the ceremony is performed. In the very
heart of domesticity Mrs. Cutting finds moving crises and climaxes,
perils and triumphs. Why not? Domestic affairs make or break the daily
existence of most of us. Her book has a peculiarly American quality,
for the American home is its field; at the same time its pages are
especially rich in those touches of nature, humorous or pathetic--often
humorous and pathetic--that make the whole world kin.

$1.25




GOLDEN NUMBERS

_A Book of Verse for Youth_

_Edited by_

KATE DOUGLAS WIGGIN AND NORA ARCHIBALD SMITH

_with an Introduction and Little Letters on Poetry by_

KATE DOUGLAS WIGGIN

FOR the purpose of compiling this book Mrs. Riggs [Kate Douglas Wiggin]
and her sister, Miss Smith, have explored practically the entire body
of English poetry, and have spent two years in the work of selection
and arrangement. The result, it is hardly necessary to say, in view of
Mrs. Riggs’ well-known sympathy with the needs and interests of young
life, is the greatest work ever planned to put the boys and girls of
America and England in possession of the poetic heritage of their
literature. The volume may well serve as a general anthology for all
ages, so representative is it and so complete. And yet so skillfully
has the work been done that nothing is introduced which might not serve
immediately to win the attention of the young reader and to stimulate
his curiosity to make independent discoveries in the broad fields that
lie beyond the covers of his book. A second volume is in preparation.
It will be entitled _The Posy Ring_, and will aim to interest still
younger readers than those to which _Golden Numbers_ will make an
appeal.




By A. Conan Doyle

THE HOUND OF THE BASKERVILLES

A Sherlock Holmes Novel

Illustrated by Sidney Paget

[Illustration]

_The London Chronicle_, in a review headed

“THE ZENITH OF SHERLOCK HOLMES,”

says:

“We should like to pay Dr. Doyle the highest compliment at our
command. It is not simply that this book is superior in originality
and construction to the earlier adventures of the great detective. Dr.
Doyle has provided a criminal who, as Mr. Holmes admits, is indeed a
foeman worthy of his steel.[A] Hitherto he has found it comparatively
easy to unmask his antagonists. But in the present case he finds
himself checkmated again and again. There is pitted against him a skill
nearly equal to his own, and he wins the game almost by a hair.”

[A] “I tell you, Watson, this time we have a foeman who is worthy of
our steel.”--_Sherlock Holmes._

$1.25




By George Douglas

THE HOUSE WITH THE GREEN SHUTTERS

[Illustration]

THE first novel of a new master. The work has gained wide-spread
recognition on both sides of the water. Three of the most conservative
and authoritative publications in England include it among the first
twelve of the year. In this country _Harper’s Weekly_ gives it as one
of the two most interesting novels of the year.

_The critics differ as to with what other master George Douglas should
be compared_:

  _The London Times_ says: “Worthy of the hand that drew ‘Weir of
  Hermiston,’” and that “Balzac and Flaubert, had they been Scotch,
  would have written such a book.”

  _The Spectator_: “His masters are Zola and Balzac, but there are few
  traces of the novice and none of the imitator.”

  _Vanity Fair_: “It moves to its end with all the terrible unity of an
  Æschylean tragedy.”

  _Harper’s Weekly_: “If Thomas Hardy had written of Scotland, instead
  of Wessex, it would have been something like ‘The House with the
  Green Shutters’.... If any man is his (Douglas’) master it is Thomas
  Hardy.”

  Hardy, Stevenson, Zola, Flaubert, Balzac, and Æschylus.

  Eighth Edition.        $1.50.




By Henry Wallace Phillips

RED SAUNDERS

His Adventures, West and East

[Illustration]

There is plenty of dash and adventure in this book, told with a humor
whose most delightful quality is its unstudied naturalness. The critics
are all laughing, not at the book, but with it.

“Chantay Seechee Red is the sort of cowpuncher it benefits one to meet
even between the covers of a book.”--_N. Y. Evening Post._

“Mark Twain has written no more delicious stories.”--_Philadelphia
Inquirer._

“A delightful study of life in the West.”--_Newark Call._

“The wind blows through it, and the meaning of it is health and
joy.”--_N. Y. Sun._

“The creator of Red Saunders has an exuberant sense of humor.”--_N. Y.
Evening Telegram._

  Second Edition        $1.25


McClure, Phillips & Co.




TRANSCRIBER’S NOTES:


  Italicized text is surrounded by underscores: _italics_.

  Superscripted text is preceded by a carat character: M^c.

  Obvious typographical errors have been corrected.

  Inconsistencies in hyphenation have been standardized.

  Archaic or variant spelling has been retained.

  No attempt has been made to regularize dialect and brogue.

  There was a typesetting error that occurred at the beginning of
    Chapter VIII, and the affected chapter numbers have been corrected.

***