She stopped massaging her foot and turned to stare incredulously at me.
"Everybody?" she gasped.

I nodded. "Including kindly old ladies and small dogs," I said. I mean,
I wasn't boasting or anything. Just trying to paint a clear picture
for her.

She thought it over carefully. I could see an idea begin to form in her
big brown eyes.

"This is remarkable," she murmured. "This is really remarkable. Mind
driving around a bit?"

While I drove around she told me about herself. Her name, she said, was
Marsha Carson, though her friends all called her Panda. She worked for
the Keevan Research Foundation. Her boss was Dr. Stanley MacCluett, the
famous bio-electronicist, who was presently doing some important work
on waveform mutuality.

"I have a very good reason for filling you in on all this background
material," she went on to explain. "Because of the type of biological
electronic research we are carrying on at Keevan I feel I am in an
excellent position to offer a logical explanation as to why everybody
finds you so detestable."

I told her there wasn't any mystery about that. "I am detestable," I
said.

She nodded somberly. "You're an abominable cluck, and that's a
mink-lined fact," she agreed. "But this is in no way your fault.
You are simply an unfortunate victim of an extreme variation from
the electric norm. You have what we bio-electronicists call a rogue
symbiotic waveform."

She could be right. Big-electronics was a little out of my line. I
didn't feel I knew enough about the subject to argue.

"What throws me," I said, "is why I should reciprocate your revulsion.
I mean, ordinarily I am a sort of good-natured slob. I don't often get
mad--not even at kindly old ladies."

It seemed Panda also had a theory about that. "This antagonism
undoubtedly stems from the fact that we are at opposite ends of the
symbiotic scale," she said. "We are a hundred per cent incompatible."

We drove around for a couple of hours before I dropped her off at her
apartment in Santa Monica. When I finally left, I found I was committed
to escorting her down to Long Beach, where I was wrestling that next
night. I wanted that date the way a guy on his way to the electric
chair wants to sit down.

The Long Beach match turned out to be one of my best performances. The
sight of Panda sitting there in the front row, her face contorted in a
livid mask of hatred, was positively inspiring. When I finally made my
victor's march up the aisle, the place was a howling bedlam.

Those kindly old ladies were leaping from seat to seat like
spindle-legged Tarzans.

Leo was all molars by the time we got back down to the dressing
room. "Freddy," he chortled, "tonight you were great. I hear the TV
switchboard is jammed with people calling up to swear they will slay
you on sight. But slow and painful!"

I told Leo I was happy to learn I was such a success.

"You have never been nastier," he assured me expansively. "It must be
that dame with the striped hair who was sitting at ringside. She had
a high-tone way of screaming for your blood that was very smart box
office. Maybe I should step out and give her a couple of free ducats."

I told Leo he needn't bother. "I don't think Panda wants any free
ducats," I said.

He looked surprised. "You mean you are acquainted with this piebald
babe, Freddy?"

"She came with me," I admitted glumly. "She's a Ph.D. and she lives in
Santa Monica."

"Freddy," he murmured, shaking his head in honest admiration,
"sometimes I think you are a much smarter boy than I always figured.
What an act your girl put on tonight!"

"She wasn't acting, Leo," I said. "She really hates me."

"Freddy," he groaned, still shaking his head, "sometimes I think maybe
you are a much stupider boy than I always figured. You drive this girl
up Route One-o-one tonight and tomorrow your body will no doubt wash up
on the rocks at Redondo."