The pulsing sigh faded to a breathless hush when I climbed through the
ropes. Then, suddenly, this kid redhead in shorts and store curves
leaped to her feet.

"Oh, you great big beautiful doll, you!" she yipped, waving her popcorn
at me.

From then on things got real pitiful. I was supposed to be wrestling a
guy named Arnie Kapowsky. Arnie never wrestled any way but hero-style,
and the crowd broke his heart that night.

What happened was each time I started to massage Arnie's eyeballs with
my thumbs, the crowd whooped with delight. And each time Arnie worked
into a hold such as would be perfectly permissible on any dance floor
in the country, those kindly old ladies scrambled through the ropes and
whanged him with their canes.

Arnie finally terminated this loathsome exhibition by lying down and
covering his head with his arms. Either that crowd had to cheer fair or
Arnie wasn't going to play.

I don't want to linger any longer on that match. It is something better
forgotten by one and all. It is a black and infamous blot, buried now
in the pages of wrestling history. Let us leave it there.

Leo waited until we were back in the dressing room before blowing his
top. "Freddy," he screeched, "what disgusting thing have you done? Have
you rescued some blonde who was going down in the briny deep for the
ninth time?"

I told Leo no. "I try to save a blonde from drowning," I said, "and
she'll scream high-C for a shark to come and protect her."

"Then have you pulled some tiny toddler out from under the wheels of a
careening and malignant truck?" Leo screeched.

I told Leo no. "I try to pull some kid out from under a truck," I said,
"and he's liable to bite off my right arm all the way up to my left
ear."

"Then how come that crowd was cheering on your side?" Leo howled. "Why
were they drooling with affection for you?"

I couldn't explain it. I was completely confused.

If I'd have had a bit more time to think it over I might have been able
to figure it out. But it wasn't until this cop brought Panda down to my
dressing room that I found out just what had happened.

"Freddy," this cop said, sticking his head in, "there's a young babe
with striped hair out here. This young babe is a very excited young
babe. She says she has to see you."

Panda pushed her way in before I could answer. Her face was almost as
white as that distinctive streak in her hair.

"Freddy," she squealed, "are you all right?"

I was getting fed up with that question. It just wasn't normal for
people to keep asking it. "Of course I'm all right," I snapped.

"But, Freddy," she wailed, "he might have killed you!"

I had to laugh. "You mean Arnie?" I snickered. "Why Arnie wouldn't hurt
a fly. Besides, it's against the rules for clean-cut American kids to
wrestle rough."

"I mean Dr. MacCluett," she squalled. "That was a very dangerous
operation he performed on you. He might have done an irreparable injury
to your poor little brain."

In all my life I had never heard such a silly statement.

"Panda, I got to tell you something," I sighed. "Even that bear in that
carnival couldn't damage my brain. He beat both paws to a pulp on my
head, and then said to hell with it. We used to call that bear 'Old
Limpy.'"

She didn't appear to be paying an awful lot of attention to what I
was saying. "Dr. MacCluett confessed everything," she went on in a
tremulous voice. "He really was jealous of you. So he decided to
modify your waveform. He used an ultrasonic beam to perform a sort of
transorbital lobotomy and make you lovable."