I wasn't so sure he wasn't right. I wasn't so sure Panda wasn't
prowling around the parking area now, a fire ax in each hand.

As it turned out she was sitting quietly in my car. "You unspeakable
beast!" she greeted me when I climbed in. It was the most restrained
statement she had made all evening.

On our way up the coast we stopped at a seafood restaurant. In some of
these roadside joints you can sometimes pick up a lobster loaded with
ptomaine. But either Panda was immune to ptomaine, or else I was just
unlucky that night.

It was while we were in the restaurant that Panda made the request that
was to ruin my career. "Freddy," she said, squinting thoughtfully at
me, "I wonder if you would do me a favor?"

I hesitated. I wanted to be polite, but I wasn't going to cut my throat
with any knife. "Favor?" I repeated cautiously.

She nodded. "I wonder if you would stop in at the Keevan Foundation and
let Dr. MacCluett type your symbiotic waveform. We may be able to get a
waveshape picture of the enmity factor in its pure form. Such a study
might lead to the unlocking of the riddle of the antipathy some ethnic
groups instinctively hold for others. This might easily turn out to be
the dawn of a new era."

Well, as long as she put it that way, I didn't see how I could refuse.
I figure if there's one thing this world can use, it's the dawn of a
new era.

And so that is how I happened to be at the Keevan Research Foundation
early that next evening.

The famous Dr. Stanley MacCluett came as a complete surprise to me.
I was expecting a stoop-shouldered old gentleman in bifocals. But he
turned out to be about my age and almost as big. He had a granite jaw
and brilliant blue eyes that lit up like a pinball machine whenever he
glanced at Panda. He seemed to glance at Panda a lot.

The good doctor opened up the proceedings that evening by giving me
a rapid-fire briefing on mutuality. He went all the way back to the
planarian worms and worked his way up to the primates. He explained
that it was his theory that the pattern of all social behavior was
determined by a complicated meshing of symbiotic waves. According
to him, these waves held the key to the urge of kind to mate with
kind; they were the basis of all physical attraction and all physical
antipathy. It was very scientific. I never understood a word.

When he finished the briefing, he led me into a small lab that looked
like a cross between the cockpit of a B-39 and an operating room for
midgets. There was a big contour chair in the center of the lab.

"Sit in the chair, Freddy," Panda ordered.

I sat in the chair, but I was beginning to get worried.

"Look," I said, narrowing my eyes and steeling my voice, "just in case
something goes wrong, I'd like to leave a few words for posterity. I'd
like to state that I am proud to--"

"Stop blubbering, Freddy," Panda snapped, giving me a look that would
have carved a duck. "This isn't going to hurt."

She was right, Dr. MacCluett said. All they were going to do was use
a radio electroencephalograph on me. That radio electroencephalograph
was just a series of modified FM transmitters which they were going to
set up around me. Those transmitters would pick up my wave patterns and
transmit them over to that receiver in the corner. That receiver would
flash the pattern to that oscilloscope beside it. I would be as safe as
a baby in its mother's arms. Safer even. Those FM transmitters weren't
going to drop hot cigarette ashes on me. They weren't going to drip gin
in my eyes.

"Just lean back and relax," Dr. MacCluett finished.

I leaned back and tried to relax. Those FM transmitters, I had an
idea, were going to have their job cut out for them. That oscilloscope
was probably going to turn out to be the blankest oscilloscope in the
country.