The way it started, Leo Stern decided I should make a publicity
appearance at this soiree up in Bel Air. I wasn't happy about the deal.
These Bel Air soirees are usually loaded with earnest intellectuals,
and if there's one thing that upsets me it's mingling with earnest
intellectuals. But Leo is my manager. What he decides I should do, I do.

"Being seen at this brain brawl will be smart box office, Freddy," Leo
told me. "You can use a little high-brow publicity."

I could have used a little premonition and second sight too. It would
have kept me from getting mixed up with Panda, the beautiful Ph.D.
It would have kept me from taking that fatal fall to Dr. Stanley
MacCluett's synthetic symbiotic wave. I could have gone on for the rest
of my life being the same old obnoxious Freddy Booten.

That's my legal name--Freddy Booten. Professionally I am known as Don
Diablo. This is because I am supposed to look very sinister. I have
basilisk black eyes, a satanic-type Vandyke and I am all over with
muscle. I am what is very loosely termed a wrestler.

Very, very loosely. On any given day you can pick up at least a
hundred heavies around and about the country who can easily whip me no
hands. The reason they consistently refrain from doing this is merely
because promoters dearly love to amass money. Time and time again cash
customers will come back to the arena in the hopes of seeing some
clean-cut American kid twist me up like a cruller.

This never happens, of course. What happens is I leave the clean-cut
American kid writhing in frightful agony on the canvas. Sneering
horribly, a red nylon robe tossed rakishly around my shoulders, I make
my victory strut up the aisle. While I strut and sneer, kindly old
ladies try to beat me to death with their canes. I am indeed a very
obnoxious character.

Being obnoxious never bothered me. It was, I always figured, a fast way
to stack a buck on top of a buck. In a year or two, if some kindly old
lady didn't maim me first, I'd have enough to retire to my pig farm
back in Fishhook, Illinois. I'm proud of that pig farm. People may
detest me, but I get along fine with pigs. We're real compatible.