The way it is, I'm more familiar with appearing on TV than on radio. I
felt lost without a camera pointing at me.

"You want me to suffer a little?" I asked uncertainly. "You want me to
lash my beard a few times?"

Dr. MacCluett gave me an unfriendly glance.

For a while I sat there and watched them out of the corners of my eyes.
Then I began to get restless again.

"You reading me all right, Dr. MacCluett?" I called.

He didn't bother to answer. Just went on staring at that oscilloscope.
"This is remarkable," I heard him mutter. "We must make a photographic
record of this. Thus must primitive man's waveform have appeared when
he was forced to battle the hairy mammoth."

I decided I ought to put the doctor straight on that point. I didn't
want to ruin the start of a new era with any misconceptions.

"Dr. MacCluett, I got to tell you something," I said. "I never battled
a hairy mammoth in all my life. Couple of years ago I wrestled a bear
in a carnival. But I never laid a finger on a hairy mammoth in all my
life."

He didn't bother to comment on that either. He just went on staring and
muttering.

I was beginning to build up a back pressure of curiosity. Finally it
got to be too much for me. "You mind if I step over and take a peek?" I
called out. I mean, those were my brain waves they were looking at. I
wanted to be sure they were cleaned up and cleared for transmission.

Panda spun around. "Freddy, don't you dare move!" she yipped. "How can
you possibly step over and look at your own brain waves?"

When I thought it over, it didn't seem logical. I guess it would be
like climbing a ladder to see the top of your head. I decided it wasn't
anything to start a war about.

I don't know what sort of rating I would have picked up on that first
show, but I must have impressed Dr. MacCluett. Anyway, he invited me to
come back again that next day.

During the following weeks I suppose I must have appeared at the
Foundation at least a dozen times. I was even beginning to draw a
small studio audience. Scientists from all over the country came around
to stare thoughtfully at me and to ask me probing questions. I don't
know, maybe they figured I must have sneaked down from Mars. Any day
now I expected the FBI to drop in and ask me where I'd hid my saucer.

On the nights I wasn't wrestling I got in the habit of going places
with Panda. She said she wanted to record the reactions of the unwary
human horde to my nauseating personality.

As long as I didn't have anything else to do, I didn't mind. But I
could tell Dr. MacCluett was beginning to resent these field trips.
Couple of times I caught him giving me a sort of measuring stare.
It reminded me of the way that bear in the carnival used to look at
me--like he wished he could get his muzzle off.

I mentioned this to Panda. "That Dr. MacCluett doesn't like my going
out with you so often," I told her. "I'm making him jealous."

She almost broke herself up with girlish glee over that. "Oh, brother!"
she shrieked. "How could anybody possibly get jealous of you, Freddy?"

She had a good point. It didn't sound reasonable. "All the same," I
insisted, "that Dr. MacCluett is getting jealous."

She told me to stop worrying about it. "I'll handle the good doctor,"
she said. It was like a kid with a toy blaster telling you he'd handle
that armored column.

The very next day the good doctor lowered the boom on me. Panda was
lecturing at some woman's club out in Pomona when it happened. I
hadn't planned on appearing at the Foundation that afternoon, but Dr.
MacCluett called up and asked me if I would stop in. He sounded so
genial I decided Panda must have informed him he now loved me like a
brother.