For once there were no visiting neurologists waiting in the lab. In
fact, there was nobody there but Dr. MacCluett.

"Freddy," he said, opening hostilities with a big false smile, "I have
one final experiment I would like to perform on you. I've been holding
it back to the last because it may be a bit rough."

I asked him how rough did he mean. I said, "I'm wrestling down at the
pier tonight, and I can't go on that card with a broken leg. I go on
that card with a broken leg and those kindly old ladies will part my
head right down the middle."

"This experiment will involve no hazard to limb," he assured me,
his smile turning somewhat bleak. "And it may prove to be of great
scientific importance."

Well, I thought, as long as it was for Science, I ought to do it.
After all, Science has done a lot for me. If it wasn't for Science I'd
probably be crouched in a cold cave, gnawing on a raw buffalo. I wanted
Science to know I was grateful.

Since my last visit to the Foundation, I noticed the doctor had added
another piece of equipment. It was set up beside the contour chair. It
looked like one of those analyzers they use in garages to check motor
performance. There was a long metal barrel sticking out from it. That
barrel pointed directly at my head when I sat down in the chair.

"Dr. MacCluett," I said, "if you've got this gun loaded, maybe you
better not aim it at my head. I am liable to dull that bullet."

"This instrument is not a gun," he grunted, making a micrometer
adjustment. He sighted down the barrel and added, "It's a symbiotic
waveshape modifier."

The doctor hadn't been kidding when he said that experiment was going
to be rough. One moment I was sitting there, big-wheeling civilization
on to the dawn of a new era. The next moment a squadron of jet bombers
started roaring through my skull.

Dr. MacCluett was waving a bottle of spirits of ammonia under my nose
when I finally opened my eyes.

"You all right, Freddy?" he asked in a quavering voice.

I staggered to my feet. I had a headache that would have dropped an
elephant in its tracks. A team of rough maulers couldn't have done a
better job on me with claw holds.

"I'm fine," I groaned, matching him quaver for quaver. "The only reason
I look this way is merely because I am dying."

By dint of much heaving and tugging he managed to haul me out to my car
and boost me into it.

He appeared as nervous as a neophyte murderer trying to get his first
corpse under cover.

"Drive carefully, Freddy," he said, stepping back. He pulled out a
white handkerchief and waved it gently. "Look both ways when you cross
Wilshire. Please watch out for dangerous pedestrians."

Leo was waiting for me in my dressing room that evening. He gave
me an anxious scrutiny. "You feel all right, Freddy?" he inquired
solicitously. "You want I should get you an aspirin? You want I should
hold a cold cloth on your head?"

I had to look twice to be sure this was Leo talking to me. Any other
time I could be lying flat on my face. I could be bleeding out of all
my arteries and Leo would probably try to boot me to my feet. "Freddy,"
he would probably say, "what are you, a hypochondriac?" But here he
was, clucking over me like a hen over a newborn egg.

The rest of the evening was strictly a nightmare out of 3-D by
Technicolor. I walked down the aisle and there wasn't a single,
solitary boo in the place. So help me! There was only this soft,
pulsing sigh. Like a steel guitar stuck on Blue Hawaii.