The party Leo picked out for me to attend that night was being held
in one of those mansions which come equipped with their own private
mountain. It was jammed clear to the upstairs maid with artists, swamis
and people, and I was prepared to have a very dull night. What I wasn't
prepared for was to meet Panda.

At the time, I didn't know that's who she was. All I knew was suddenly
here was this spectacular girl with the glossy white streak in her
satin black hair standing in front of me. She had an orange juice and
vodka in one hand and an expression of mild revulsion on her beautiful
face.

"I can tell by that silly beard you're a male," she snarled. "But a
male what?"

Then she reached up and dumped the orange juice and vodka over me.

It wasn't anything to get sore about. Lots of women throw drinks at me.
I'm used to it by now. When it happens, I merely draw myself up to my
full six-feet-four and drip disdainfully down on the drink-tosser. Then
I stalk away. If there's a photographer around, I pause and lash my
beard a couple of times for the camera. It is, Leo says, very smart box
office.

It wasn't anything to get sore about, but that's what I did. Something
sputtered in my head and I broke out in flame. Without even bothering
to clear it with my conscience I lifted a foot and planted it on the
girl's instep. Not hard enough to break any bones, you understand; just
enough pressure to cause her to shriek in mortal anguish.

That shriek got a rousing reaction. Those earnest intellectuals
suddenly came boiling toward me in a red wave of wrath. There was a
scrawny blonde, built like the ruins of Pompeii, in the lead.

"Let me have him, girls!" I heard that scrawny blonde whinny. "Ten
years ago I took some jujutsu lessons to help protect me from men. Now
I want to see if I wasted my money."

I guess she never did find out if she wasted her money. Before she
could get her girlish talons into me some lily-livered flunky pulled
the main light switch.

In the thick darkness I barreled my way through the screaming mob. I
didn't stop until I climbed into my car. Somebody plopped down into the
seat beside me just as I hit the starter.

"Better roll it out of here fast!" a girl's voice yipped excitedly in
my ear. "There's a berserk gorilla loose in there!"

I wanted to explain that the berserk gorilla wasn't loose in there any
more. I wanted to say, Look, sis, that berserk gorilla is me. But,
judging from the way the riot was building up, I just didn't have the
time to spare. I rolled out of there fast.

It wasn't until we swung into the lighted boulevard that I realized I
had picked up the furious little female with the striped hair.

She recognized me at the same instant. "Yipes!" she squalled. "The
bearded Gargantua!" She drew back her foot and aimed a quick kick at
my shin. Her open-toed sandal whizzed by my leg and thudded into the
dashboard. She grabbed her foot and squalled some more. "Crumpled it up
like a balsa kite!" she screeched. "Bones sticking out all over! Stop
this chartreuse tumbrel! Let me out of here!"

I stopped the car. The mood she was in I felt she just wasn't safe to
have around.

"I don't want to rush you, sis," I said, "but there'll probably be a
broom coming along any minute. Maybe if you crawl out fast you can grab
a ride home."

She counted up to ten, cooling off faster than a strip-teaser in a
drafty igloo.

"This is ridiculous," she sputtered. "Why is it I keep blowing my top
like this?"

I was beginning to feel sorry for her. After all, it wasn't her fault
I was so obnoxious. "Don't let it throw you," I sighed. "You're merely
acting normal. Everybody hates me."