It didn't seem like a strictly sensible thing for a smart man like Dr.
MacCluett to do. Still, I guess having a high I.Q. doesn't necessarily
guarantee a man against being a complete jerk in certain things.

"Why, that poor stupid genius!" I chuckled.

Leo let out a strangled roar. "Freddy," he bellowed, "what is this
pinto Ph.D. saying? Is she saying you have let some wacky scientist
tamper with your putrid personality?"

That wacky scientist had tampered all right. There wasn't much point
in denying it, so I just raised my eyebrows like a furry pair of
humpbacked Japanese bridges.

Panda drew a long shuddering breath and began to close in on me. "When
Dr. MacCluett made that wave shift," she murmured, "he overlooked the
fact that there is but a very thin line separating love and hate. He--"
She reached up suddenly and slipped her arms around my neck. "Oh-h-h,
Fred--dy!" she cooed.

It was a pleasant sensation. I mean, it was a sort of change from
having drinks sloshed over you. For a moment there I began to think
science was wonderful. I still hadn't had time to realize my career
had just gone down in flames. I still didn't know what an appalling
experience being a lovable character was going to turn out to be.

I found out. Oh, brother, how I found out!

Twice during the next week Leo arranged matches for me. And twice those
kindly old ladies surged through the ropes to protect me.

For awhile I kept hoping my new personality would wear off like a
hangover. But it kept getting stronger and stronger. If I ran a stop
light, some cop would roar up and apologize for that light's being red.
If I stepped into a bar to order a drink, the bartender would beat his
forehead in anguish. "Freddy!" he'd scream. "You got to take better
care of your stomach! Don't drink that slop I beg you!"

Even my pigs were affected by my new waveform. The time I flew back to
Illinois to check on my farm, those pigs chased me clear out of the
county. Nipped at my heels and bayed like beagles, those pigs did.

I wasn't too upset about it. I planned on selling the farm anyway. Now
that I'm in the diplomatic service, I won't have much time for pig
farming. Being the ambassador to Russia is a big job, and I'm worried
about it. I don't know whether I'll like having all those Cossacks call
me Uncle Freddy. I don't know what I'll do with the Kremlin when they
give it to me.