II.

_A CHIP OF THE OLD BLOCK._

It was no part of Squire Broadbent's plan to turn away old and
faithful servants.  He had to weed them though, and this meant
thinning out to such an extent that not over many were left.

The young and healthy creatures of inutility had to shift; but the
very old, the decrepit--those who had become stiff and grey in his
uncle's service--were pensioned off.  They were to stay for the rest
of their lives in the rural village adown the glen--bask in the sun
in summer, sit by the fire of a winter, and talk of the times when "t
'old Squire was aboot."

The servants settled with, and fresh ones with suitable "go" in them
established in their place, the live stock came in for reformation.

"St. Mary! what a medley!" exclaimed the Squire, as he walked through
the byres and stables, and past the styes.  "Everything bred anyhow.
No method in my uncle's madness.  No rules followed, no type.  Why
the quickest plan will be to put them all to the hammer."

This was cutting the Gordian-knot with a vengeance, but it was
perhaps best in the long run.

Next came renovation of the farm-steading itself; pulling down and
building, enlarging, and what not, and while this was going on, the
land itself was not being forgotten.  Fences were levelled and carted
away, and newer and airier ones put up, and for the most part three
and sometimes even five fields were opened into one.  There were
woods also to be seen to.  The new Squire liked woods, but the trees
in some of these were positively poisoning each other.  Here was a
larch-wood, for instance--those logs with the long, grey lichens on
them are part of some of the trees.  So closely do the larches grow
together, so white with moss, so stunted and old-looking, that it
would have made a merry-andrew melancholy to walk among them.  What
good were they?  Down they must come, and down they had come; and
after the ground had been stirred up a bit, and left for a summer to
let the sunshine and air into it, all the hill was replanted with
young, green, smiling pines, larches, and spruces, and that was
assuredly an improvement.  In a few years the trees were well
advanced; grass and primroses grew where the moss had crept about,
and the wood in spring was alive with the song of birds.

The mansion-house had been left intact.  Nothing could have added
much to the beauty of that.  It stood high up on a knoll, with rising
park-like fields behind, and at some considerable distance the blue
slate roofs of the farm-steading peeping up through the greenery of
the trees.  A solid yellow-grey house, with sturdy porch before the
hall-door, and sturdy mullioned windows, one wing ivy-clad, a broad
sweep of gravel in front, and beyond that, lawns and terraces, and
flower and rose-gardens.  And the whole overlooked a river or stream,
that went winding away clear and silvery till it lost itself in
wooded glens.

The scenery was really beautiful all round, and in some parts even
wild; while the distant views of the Cheviot Hills lent a charm to
everything.

There was something else held sacred by the Squire as well as the
habitable mansion, and that was Burley Old Castle.  Undoubtedly a
fortress of considerable strength it had been in bygone days, when
the wild Scots used to come raiding here, but there was no name for
it now save that of a "ruin."  The great north tower still stood firm
and bold, and three walls of the lordly hall, its floor green with
long, rank grass; the walls themselves partly covered with ivy, with
broom growing on the top, which was broad enough for the half-wild
goats to scamper along.

There was also the donjon keep, and the remains of a _fosse_; but all
the rest of this feudal castle had been unceremoniously carted away,
to erect cowsheds and pigstyes with it.

  "So sinks the pride of former days,
    When glory's thrill is o'er."


No, Squire Broadbent did not interfere with the castle; he left it to
the goats and to Archie, who took to it as a favourite resort from
the time he could crawl.

But these--all these--new-fangled notions the neighbouring squires
and farmers bold could easily have forgiven, had Broadbent not
carried his craze for machinery to the very verge of folly.  So they
thought.  Such things might be all very well in America, but they
were not called for here.  Extraordinary mills driven by steam, no
less wonderful-looking harrows, uncanny-like drags and drilling
machines, sowing and reaping machines that were fearfully and
wonderfully made, and ploughs that, like the mills, were worked by
steam.

Terrible inventions these; and even the men that were connected with
them had to be brought from the far South, and did not talk a homely,
wholesome _lingua_, nor live in a homely, wholesome way.

His neighbours confessed that his crops were heavier, and the cereals
and roots finer; but they said to each other knowingly, "What about
the expense of down-put?"  And as far as their own fields went, the
plough-boy still whistled to and from his work.

Then the new live stock, why, type was followed; type was everything
in the Squire's eye and opinion.  No matter what they were, horses,
cattle, pigs, sheep, and feather-stock, even the dogs and birds were
the best and purest of the sort to be had.

But for all the head-shaking there had been at first, things really
appeared to prosper with the Squire; his big, yellow-painted wagons,
with their fine Clydesdale horses, were as well known in the district
and town of B---- as the brewer's dray itself.  The "nags" were
capitally harnessed.  What with jet-black, shining leather,
brass-work that shone like burnished gold, and crimson-flashing
fringes, it was no wonder that the men who drove them were proud, and
that they were favourites at every house of call.  Even the bailiff
himself, on his spirited hunter, looked imposing with his whip in his
hand, and in his spotless cords.

Breakfast at Burley was a favourite meal, and a pretty early one, and
the capital habit of inviting friends thereto was kept up.  Mrs.
Broadbent's tea was something to taste and remember; while the cold
beef, or that early spring lamb on the sideboard, would have
converted the veriest vegetarian as soon as he clapped eyes on it.

On his spring lamb the Squire rather prided himself, and he liked his
due meed of praise for having reared it.  To be sure he got it;
though some of the straight-forward Northumbrians would occasionally
quizzingly enquire what it cost him to put on the table.

Squire Broadbent would not get out of temper whatever was said, and
really, to do the man justice, it must be allowed that there was a
glorious halo of self-reliance around his head; and altogether such
spirit, dash, and independence with all he said and did, that those
who breakfasted with him seemed to catch the infection.  Their farms
and they themselves appeared quite behind the times, when viewed in
comparison with Broadbent's and with Broadbent himself.

If ever a father was loved and admired by a son, the Squire was that
man, and Archie was that particular son.  His father was Archie's
_beau ideal_ indeed of all that was worth being, or saying, or
knowing, in this world; and Rupert's as well.

He really was his boys' hero, but behaved more to them as if he had
been just a big brother.  It was a great grief to both of them that
Rupert could not join in their games out on the lawn in summer--the
little cricket matches, the tennis tournaments, the jumping, and
romping, and racing.  The tutor was younger than the Squire by many
years, but he could not beat him in any manly game you could mention.

Yes, it was sad about Rupert, but with all the little lad's suffering
and weariness, he was such a sunny-faced chap.  He never complained,
and when sturdy, great, brown-faced Archie carried him out as if he
had been a baby, and laid him on the couch where he could witness the
games, he was delighted beyond description.

I'm quite sure that the Squire often and often kept on playing longer
than he would otherwise have done just to please the child, as he was
generally called.  As for Elsie, she did all her brother did, and a
good deal more besides, and yet no one could have called her a tom
girl.

As the Squire was Archie's hero, I suppose the boy could not help
taking after his hero to some extent; but it was not only surprising
but even amusing to notice how like to his "dad" in all his ways
Archie had at the age of ten become.  The same in walk, the same in
talk, the same in giving his opinion, and the same in bright,
determined looks.  Archie really was what his father's friends called
him, "a chip of the old block."

He was a kind of a lad, too, that grown-up men folks could not help
having a good, romping lark with.  Not a young farmer that ever came
to the place could have beaten Archie at a race; but when some of
them did get hold of him out on the lawn of an evening, then there
would be a bit of fun, and Archie was in it.

These burly Northumbrians would positively play a kind of pitch and
toss with him, standing in a square or triangle and throwing him hack
and fore as if he had been a cricket ball.  And there was one very
tall, wiry young fellow who treated Archie as if he had been a sort
of dumb-bell, and took any amount of exercise out of him; holding him
high aloft with one hand, swaying him round and round and up and
down, changing hands, and, in a word, going through as many motions
with the laughing boy as if he had been inanimate.

* * * * * *

I do not think that Archie ever dressed more quickly in his life,
than he did on the morning of that auspicious day which saw him ten
years old.  To tell the truth, he had never been very much struck
over the benefits of early rising, especially on mornings in winter.
The parting between the boy and his warm bed was often of a most
affecting character.  The servant would knock, and the gong would go,
and sometimes he would even hear his father's voice in the hall
before he made up his mind to tear himself away.

But on this particular morning, no sooner had he rubbed his eyes and
began to remember things, than he sprang nimbly to the floor.  The
bath was never a terrible ordeal to Archie, as it is to some lads.
He liked it because it made him feel light and buoyant, and made him
sing like the happy birds in spring time; but to-day he did think it
would be a saving of time to omit it.  Yes, but it would be cowardly,
and on this morning of all mornings; so in he plunged, and plied the
sponge manfully.  He did not draw up the blinds till well-nigh
dressed.  For all he could see when he did do so, he might as well
have left them down.  The windows--the month was January--were hard
frozen; had it been any other day, he would have paused to admire the
beautiful frost foliage and frost ferns that nature had etched on the
panes.  He blew his breath on the glass instead, and made a clean
round hole thereon.

Glorious!  It had been snowing pretty heavily, but now the sky was
clear.  The footprints of the wily fox could be tracked.  Archie
would follow him to his den in the wild woods, and his Skye terriers
would unearth him.  Then----the boy knelt to pray, just reviewing the
past for a short time before he did so, and thinking what a deal he
had to be thankful for; how kind the good Father was to have given
him such parents, such a beautiful home, and such health, and
thinking too what a deal he had to be sorry for in the year that was
gone; then he gave thanks, and prayer for strength to resist
temptation in the time to come; and, it is needless to say, he prayed
for poor invalid Rupert.

When he got up from his knees he heard the great gong sounded, and
smiled to himself to think how early he was.  Then he blew on the
pane and looked out again.  The sky was blue and clear, and there was
not a breath of wind; the trees on the lawn, laden with their weight
of powdery snow, their branches bending earthwards, especially the
larches and spruces, were a sight to see.  And the snow-covered lawn
itself, oh, how beautiful!  Archie wondered if the streets of heaven
even could be more pure, more dazzlingly white.

Whick, whick, whick, whir--r--r--r--r!

It was a big yellow-billed blackbird, that flew out with startled cry
from a small Austrian pine tree.  As it did so, a cloud of powdery
snow rose in the air, showing how hard the frost was.

Early though it was--only a little past eight--Archie found his
father and mother in the breakfast-room, and greetings and blessings
fell on his head; brief but tender.

By-and-bye the tutor came in, looking tired; and Archie exulted over
him, as cocks crow over a fallen foe, because he was down first.

Mr. Walton was a young man of five or six and twenty, and had been in
the family for over three years, so he was quite an old friend.
Moreover, he was a man after the Squire's own heart; he was manly,
and taught Archie manliness, and had a quiet way of helping him out
of every difficulty of thought or action.  Besides, Archie and Rupert
liked him.

After breakfast Archie went up to see his brother, then downstairs,
and straight away out through the servants' hall to the barn-yards.
He had showers of blessings, and not a few gifts from the servants;
but old Scotch Kate was most sincere, for this somewhat aged spinster
really loved the lad.

At the farm-steading he had many friends to see, both hairy and
feathered.  He found some oats, which he scattered among the last,
and laughed to see them scramble, and to hear them talk.  Well,
Archie at all events believed firmly that fowls can converse.  One
very lovely red game bird, came boldly up and pecked his oats from
Archie's palm.  This was the new Cock Jock, a son of the old bird,
which the fox had taken.  The Ann hen was there too.  She was bold,
and bonnie, and saucy, and seemed quite to have given up mourning for
her lost lord.  Ann came at Archie's call, flew on to his wrist, and
after steadying herself and grumbling a little because Archie moved
his arm too much, she shoved her head and neck into the boy's pocket,
and found oats in abundance.  That was Ann's way of doing business,
and she preferred it.

The ducks were insolent and noisy; the geese, instead of taking
higher views of life, as they are wont to do, bent down their stately
necks, and went in for the scramble with the rest.  The hen turkeys
grumbled a great deal, but got their share nevertheless; while the
great gobbler strutted around doing attitudes, and rustling himself,
his neck and head blood-red and blue, and every feather as stiff as
an oyster-shell.  He looked like some Indian chief arrayed for the
war-path.  Having hurriedly fed his feathered favourites, Archie went
bounding off to let out a few dogs.  He opened the door and went
right into their house, and the consequence was that one of the
Newfoundlands threw him over in the straw, and licked his face; and
the Skye terriers came trooping round, and they also paid their
addresses to him, some of the young ones jumping over his head, while
Archie could do nothing for laughing.  When he got up he sang out
"Attention!" and lo and behold the dogs, every one looking wiser than
another, some with their considering-caps on apparently, and their
heads held knowingly to one side.

"Attention!" cried the boy.  "I am going to-day to shoot the fox that
ran off with the hen Ann's husband.  I shall want some of you.  You
Bounder, and you little Fuss, and you Tackler, come."

And come those three dogs did, while the rest, with lowered tails and
pitiful looks, slunk away to their straw.  Bounder was an enormous
Newfoundland, and Fuss and Tackler were terriers, the former a Skye,
the latter a very tiny but exceedingly game Yorkie.

Yonder, gun on shoulder, came tall, stately Branson, the keeper, clad
in velveteen, with gaiters on.  Branson was a Northumbrian, and a
grand specimen too.  He might have been somewhat slow of speech, but
he was not slow to act whenever it came to a scuffle with poachers
and this last was not an unfrequent occurrence.

"My gun, Branson?"

"It's in the kitchen, Master Archie, clean and ready; and old Kate
has put a couple of corks in it, for fear it should go off."

"Oh, it is loaded then--really loaded!"

"Aye, lad; and I've got to teach you how to carry it.  This is your
first day on the hill, mind, and a rough one it is."

Archie soon got his leggings on, and his shot-belt and shooting-cap
and everything else, in true sportsman fashion.

"What!" he said at the hall door, when he met Mr. Walton, "am I to
have my tutor with me _to-day_?"

He put strong emphasis on the last word.

"You know, Mr. Walton, that I am ten to-day.  I suppose I am
conceited, but I almost feel a man."

His tutor laughed, but by no means offensively.

"My dear Archie, I _am_ going to the hill; but don't imagine I'm
going as your tutor, or to look after you.  Oh, no!  I want to go as
your friend."

This certainly put a different complexion on the matter.

Archie considered for a moment, then replied, with charming
condescension:

"Oh, yes, of course, Mr. Walton!  You are welcome, I'm sure, to come
_as a friend_."