X.

"_AFTER ALL, IT DOESN'T TAKE MUCH TO MAKE A MAN HAPPY._"

For weeks to come neither Uncle Ramsay nor Walton had the heart to
add another sorrow to the Squire's cup of misery.  They knew that the
fire had but brought on a little sooner a catastrophe which was
already falling; they knew that Squire Broadbent was virtually a
ruined man.

All the machinery had been rendered useless; the most of the cattle
were dead; the stacks were gone; and yet, strange to say, the Squire
hoped on.  Those horses and cattle which had been saved were housed
now in rudely-built sheds, among the fire-blackened ruins of their
former wholesome stables and byres.

One day Branson, who had always been a confidential servant, sent
Mary in to say he wished to speak to the Squire.  His master came out
at once.

"Nothing else, Branson," he said.  "You carry a long face, man."

"The wet weather and the cold have done their work, sir.  Will you
walk down with me to the cattle-sheds?"

Arrived there, he pointed to a splendid fat ox, who stood in his
stall before his untouched turnips with hanging head and dry, parched
nose.  His hot breath was visible when he threw his head now and then
uneasily round towards his loin, as if in pain.  There was a visible
swelling on the rump.  Branson placed a hand on it, and the Squire
could hear it "bog" and crackle.

"What is that, Branson?  Has he been hurt?"

"No, sir, worse.  I'll show you."

He took out his sharp hunting-knife.

"It won't hurt the poor beast," he said.

Then he cut deep into the swelling.  The animal never moved.  No
blood followed the incision, but the gaping wound was black, and
filled with air-bubbles.

"The quarter-ill," said the cowman, who stood mournfully by.

That ox was dead in a few hours.  Another died next day, two the
next, and so on, though not in an increasing ratio; but in a month
there was hardly an animal alive about the place except the horses.

It was time now the Squire should know all, and he did.  He looked a
chastened man when he came out from that interview with his brother
and Walton.  But he put a right cheery face on matters when he told
his wife.

"We'll have to retrench," he said.  "It'll be a struggle for a time,
but we'll get over it right enough."

Present money, however, was wanted, and raised it must be.

And now came the hardest blow the Squire had yet received.  It was a
staggering one, though he met it boldly.  There was then at Burley
Old Mansion a long picture gallery.  It was a room in an upper story,
and extended the whole length of the house--a hall in fact, and one
that more than one Squire Broadbent had entertained his friends right
royally in.  From the walls not only did portraits of ancestors bold
and gay, smile or frown down, but there hung there also many a
splendid landscape and seascape by old masters.

Most of the latter had to be sold, and the gallery was closed, for
the simple reason that Squire Broadbent, courageous though he was,
could not look upon its bare and desecrated walls without a feeling
of sorrow.

Pictures even from the drawing-room had to go also, and that room too
was closed.  But the breakfast-room, which opened to the lawn and
rose gardens, where the wild birds sang so sweetly in summer, was
left intact; so was the dining-room, and that cosy, wee green parlour
in which the family delighted to assemble around the fire in the
winter's evenings.

Squire Broadbent had been always a favourite in the county--somewhat
of an upstart and iconoclast though he was--so the sympathy he
received was universal.

Iconoclast?  Yes, he had delighted in shivering the humble idols of
others, and now his own were cast down.  Nobody, however, deserted
him.  Farmers and Squires might have said among themselves that they
always knew Broadbent was "going the pace," and that his new-fangled
American notions were poorly suited to England, but in his presence
they did all they could to cheer him.

When the ploughing time came round they gave him what is called in
the far North "a love-darg."  Men with teams of horses came from
every farm for miles around and tilled his ground.  They had luncheon
in a marquee, but they would not hear of stopping to dinner.  They
were indeed thoughtful and kind.

The parson of the parish and the doctor were particular friends of
the Squire.  They often dropped in of an evening to talk of old times
with the family by the fireside.

"I'm right glad," the doctor said one evening, "to see that you don't
lose heart, Squire."

"Bless me, sir, why should I?  To be sure we're poor now, but God has
left us a deal of comfort, doctor, and, after all, it doesn't take
much to make a man happy."

* * * * * *

Boys will be boys.  Yes, we all know that.  But there comes a time in
the life of every right-thinking lad when another truth strikes home
to him, that boys will be men.

I rather think that the sooner a boy becomes cognisant of this fact
the better.  Life is not all a dream; it must sooner or later become
a stern reality, life is not all pleasant parade and show, like a
field-day at Aldershot; no, for sooner or later pomp and panoply have
to be exchanged for camp-life and action, and bright uniforms are
either rolled in blood and dust, or come triumphant, though
tarnished, from the field of glory.  Life is not all plain sailing
over sunlit seas, for by-and-by the clouds bank up, storms come on,
and the good ship has to do battle with wind and wave.

But who would have it otherwise?  No one would who possesses the
slightest ray of honest ambition, or a single spark of that pride of
self which we need not blush to own.

One day, about the beginning of autumn, Rupert and Archie, and their
sister Elsie, were in the room in the tower.  They sat together in a
turret chamber, Elsie gazing dreamily from the window at the
beautiful scenery spread out beneath.  The woods and wilds, the
rolling hills, the silvery stream, the half-ripe grain moving in the
wind, as waves at sea move, and the silvery sunshine over al.  She
was in a kind of a daydream, her fingers listlessly touching a chord
on the harp now and then.  A pretty picture she looked, too, with her
bonnie brown hair, and her bonnie blue eyes, and thorough English
face, thorough English beauty.  Perhaps Archie had been thinking
something of this sort as he sat there looking at her, while Rupert
half-lay in the rocking-chair, which his brother had made for him,
engrossed as usual in a book.

Whether Archie did think thus or not, certain it is that presently he
drew his chair close to his sister's, and laying one arm fondly on
her shoulder.

"What is sissie looking at?" he asked.

"Oh, Archie," she replied, "I don't think I've been looking at
anything; but I've been seeing everything and wishing!"

"Wishing, Elsie?  Well, you don't look merry.  What were you wishing?"

"I was wishing the old days were back again, when--when father was
rich; before the awful fire came, and the plague, and everything.  It
has made us all old, I think.  Wouldn't you like father was rich
again?"

"I am not certain; but wishes are not horses, you know."

"No," said Elsie; "only if it could even be always like this, and if
you and Rupert and I could be always as we are now.  I think that,
poor though we are, everything just now is so pretty and so pleasant.
But you are going away to the university, and the place won't be the
same.  I shall get older faster than ever then."

"Well, Elsie," said Archie, laughing, "I am so old that I am going to
make my will."

Rupert put down his book with a quiet smile.

"What are you going to leave me, old man?  Scallowa?"

"No, Rupert, you're too long in the legs for Scallowa, you have no
idea what a bodkin of a boy you are growing.  Scallowa I will and
bequeath to my pretty sister here, and I'll buy her a side-saddle,
and two pennyworth of carrot seed.  Elsie will also have Bounder, and
you, Rupert, shall have Fuss."

"Anything else for me?"

"Don't be greedy.  But I'll tell you.  You shall have my tool-house,
and all my tools, and my gun besides.  Well, this room is to be
sister's own, and she shall also have my fishing-rod, and the book of
flies that poor Bob Cooper made for me.  Oh, don't despise them, they
are all wonders!"

"Well really, Archie," said Elsie, "you talk as earnestly as if you
actually were going to die."

"Who said I was going to die?  No, I don't mean to die till I've done
much more mischief."

"Hush!  Archie."

"Well, I'm hushed."

"Why do you want to make your will?"

"Oh, it isn't wanting to make my will!  I am--I've done it.  And the
'why' is this, I'm going away."

"To Oxford?"

"No, Elsie, not to Oxford.  I've got quite enough Latin and Greek out
of Walton to last me all my life.  I couldn't be a doctor; besides
father is hardly rich enough to make me one at present.  I couldn't
be a doctor, and I'm not good enough to be a parson."

"Archie, how you talk."

There were tears in Elsie's eyes now.

"I can't help it.  I'm going away to enter life in a new land.  Uncle
Ramsay has told me all about Australia.  He says the old country is
used up, and fortunes can be made in a few years on the other side of
the globe."

There was silence in the turret for long minutes; the whispering of
the wind in the elm trees beneath could be heard, the murmuring of
the river, and far away in the woods the cawing of rooks.

"Don't you cry, Elsie," said Archie.  "I've been thinking about all
this for some time, and my mind is made up.  I'm going, Elsie, and I
know it is for the best.  You don't imagine for a single moment, do
you, that I'll forget the dear old times, and you all?  No, no, no.
I'll think about you every night, and all day long, and I'll come
back rich.  You don't think that I won't make my fortune, do you?
Because I mean to, and will.  So there.  Don't cry, Elsie."

"I'm not going to cry, Archie," said Rupert.

"Right, Rupert, you're a brick, as Branson says."

"I'm not old enough," continued Rupert, "to give you my blessing,
though I suppose Kate would give you hers; but----we'll all pray for
you."

"Well," said Archie thoughtfully, "that will help some."

"Why, you silly boy, it will help a lot."

"I wish I were as good as you, Rupert.  But I'm just going to try
hard to do my best, and I feel certain I'll be all right."

"You know, Roup, how well I can play cricket, and how I often easily
bowl father out.  Well, that is because I've just tried my very
hardest to become a good player; and I'm going to try my very hardest
again in another way.  Oh, I shall win!  I'm cocksure I shall.  Come,
Elsie, dry your eyes.  Here's my handkie.  Don't be a little old
wife."

"You won't get killed, or anything, Archie?"

"No; I won't get killed, or eaten either."

"They do tell me," said Elsie--"that is, old Kate told me--that the
streets in Australia are all paved with gold, and that the roofs of
the houses are all solid silver."

"Well, I don't think she is quite right," said Archie, laughing.
"Anyhow, uncle says there is a fortune to be made, and I'm going to
make it.  That's all."

* * * * * *

Archie went straight away down from that boy's room feeling every
inch a man, and had an interview with his father and uncle.

It is needless to relate what took place there, or to report the
conversation which the older folks had that evening in the little
green parlour.  Both father and uncle looked upon Archie's request as
something only natural.  For both these men, singular to say, had
been boys once themselves; and, in the Squire's own words, Archie was
a son to be proud of.

"We can't keep the lad always with us, mother," said Squire
Broadbent; "and the wide world is the best of schools.  I feel
certain that, go where he will, he won't lose heart.  If he does, I
should be ashamed to own him as a son.  So there!  My only regret is,
Ramsay, that I cannot send the lad away with a better lined pocket."

"My dear silly old brother, he will be better as he is.  And I'm
really not sure that he would not be better still if he went away, as
many have gone before him, with only a stick and a bundle over his
shoulder.  You have a deal too much of the Broadbent pride; and
Archie had better leave that all behind at home, or be careful to
conceal it when he gets to the land of his adoption."

The following is a brief list of Archie's stock-in-trade when he
sailed away in the good ship _Dugong_ to begin the world alone: 1. A
good stock of clothes.  2. A good stock of assurance.  3. Plenty of
hope.  4. Good health and abundance of strength.  5. A little nest
egg at an Australian bank to keep him partly independent till he
should be able to establish a footing.  6. Letters of introduction,
blessings, and a little pocket Bible.

His uncle chose his ship, and sent him away round the Cape in a good
old-fashioned sailing vessel.  And his uncle went to Glasgow to see
him off, his last words being, "Keep up your heart, boy, whatever
happens; and keep calm in every difficulty.  Good-bye."

Away sailed the ship, and away went Archie to see the cities that are
paved with gold, and whose houses have roofs of solid silver.




Book II.