The creek that Bob talked about kicking somebody across was a kind of
strath or glen not very far from the steading, and lying below it,
green and luxuriant at present.  It wound away up and down the
country for miles, and in the centre of it was a stream or river or
burn, well clothed on its banks with bush, and opening out here and
there into little lakes or pools.  This stream was--so old Bushmen
said--never known to run dry.

[Illustration: "In the centre of the glen was a stream, well clothed
on its banks with bush, and opening out here and there into little
lakes or pools."]

In the winter time it would at times well merit the name of river,
especially when after a storm a "spate" came down, with a bore
perhaps feet high, carrying along in its dreadful rush tree-trunks,
rocks, pieces of bank--everything, in fact, that came in its way, or
attempted to withstand its giant power.  "Spates," however, our
heroes hoped would come but seldom; for it is sad to see the ruin
they make, and to notice afterwards the carcases of sheep and cattle,
and even horses, that bestrew the haughs, or banks, and give food to
prowling dingoes and birds of the air, especially the ubiquitous crow.

The ordinary state of the water, however, is best described by the
word stream or rivulet, while in droughty summers it might dwindle
down to a mere burn meandering from pool to pool.

The country all around was plain and forest and rolling hills.  It
was splendidly situated for grazing of a mixed kind.  But our three
friends were not to be content with this, and told off the best part
of it for future agricultural purposes.  Even this was to be but a
nucleus, and at this moment much of the land then untilled is
yielding abundance of grain.

Not until the place was well prepared for them were cattle bought and
brought home.  Sheep were not to be thought of for a year or two.

With the cattle, when they began to arrive, Winslow, who was soon to
pay the new settlement a visit, sent up a few really good stockmen.
And now Archie was to see something of Bush-life in reality.