It was in the spring of the same year, and during the Easter
holidays, that a little London boy came down to reside with his aunt,
who lived in one of Archie's father's cottages.

Young Harry Brown had been sent to the country for the express
purpose of enjoying himself, and set about this business forthwith.
He made up to Archie; in fact, he took so many liberties, and talked
to him so glibly, and with so little respect, that, although Archie
had imbued much of his father's principles as regards liberalism, he
did not half like it.

Perhaps, after all, it was only the boy's manner, for he had never
been to the country at all before, and looked upon every one--Archie
included--who did not know London, as jolly green.  But Archie did
not appreciate it, and, like the traditional worm, he turned, and
once again his love for practical joking got the better of his
common-sense.

"Teach us somefink," said Harry one day, turning his white face up.
He was older, perhaps, than Archie, but decidedly smaller.  "Teach us
somefink, and when you comes to Vitechapel to wisit me, I'll teach
you summut.  My eye, won't yer stare!"

The idea of this white-chafted, unwholesome-looking cad, expecting
that _he_, Squire Broadbent's son, would visit him in Whitechapel!
But Archie managed to swallow his wrath and pocket his pride for the
time being.

"What shall I teach you, eh?  I suppose you know that potatoes don't
grow on trees, nor geese upon gooseberry-bushes?"

"Yes; I know that taters is dug out of the hearth.  I'm pretty fly
for a young un."

"Can you ride?"

"No."

"Well, meet me here to-morrow at the same time, and I'll bring my
'Duck.'"

"Look 'ere, Johnnie Raw, ye said '_ride_,' not '_swim_.' A duck
teaches swimmin', not ridin'.  None o' yer larks now!"

Next day Archie swept down upon the Cockney in fine form, meaning to
impress him.

The Cockney was not much impressed; I fear he was not very
impressionable.

"My heye, Johnnie Raw," he roared, "vere did yer steal the moke?"

"Look you here, young Whitechapel, you'll have to guard that tongue
of yours a little, else communications will be cut.  Do you see?"

"It _is_ a donkey, ain't it, Johnnie?"

"Come on to the field and have a ride."

Five minutes afterwards the young Cockney on the "Eider Duck's" back
was tearing along the field at railway speed.  John Gilpin's ride was
nothing to it, nor Tam O'Shanter's on his grey mare, Meg!  Both these
worthies had stuck to the saddle, but this horseman rode upon the
neck of the steed.  Scallowa stopped short at the gate, but the boy
flew over.

Archie found his friend rubbing himself, and looking very serious,
and he felt happier now.

"Call that 'ere donkey a heider duck?  H'm?  I allers thought heider
ducks was soft!

"One to you, Johnnie.  I don't want to ride hany more."

"What else shall I teach you?"

"Hey?"

"Come, I'll show you over the farm."

"Honour bright?  No larks!"

"Yes; no larks!"

"Say honour."

"Honour."

Young Whitechapel had not very much faith in his guide, however; but
he saw more country wonders that day than ever he could have dreamt
of; while his strange remarks kept Archie continually laughing.

Next day the two boys went bird-nesting, and really Archie was very
mischievous.  He showed him a hoody-crow's nest, which he represented
as a green plover's or lapwing's; and a blackbird's nest in a
furze-bush, which he told Harry was a magpie's; and so on, and so
forth, till at last he got tired of the cheeky Cockney, and sent him
off on a mile walk to a cairn of stones, on which he told him crows
sometimes sat and "might have a nest."

Then Archie threw himself on the moss, took out a book, and began to
read.  He was just beginning to repent of his conduct to Harry Brown,
and meant to go up to him like a man when he returned, and crave his
forgiveness.

But somehow, when Harry came back he had so long a face, that wicked
Archie burst out laughing, and forgot all about his good resolve.

"What shall I teach you next?" said Archie.

"Draw it mild, Johnnie; it's 'Arry's turn.  It's the boy's turn to
teach you summut.  Shall we 'ave it hout now wi' the raw uns?
Bunches o' fives I means.  Hey?"

"I really don't understand you."

"Ha! ha! ha!  I knowed yer was a green 'un, Johnnie.  Can yer fight?
Hey?  'Cause I'm spoilin' for a row."

And Harry Brown threw off his jacket, and began to dance about in
terribly knowing attitudes.

"You had better put on your clothes again," said Archie.  "Fight
_you_?  Why I could fling you over the fishpond."

"Ah!  I dessay; but flingin' ain't fightin', Johnnie.  Come, there's
no getting hout of it.  It ain't the first young haristocrat I've
frightened; an' now you're afraid."

That was enough for Archie.  And the next moment the lads were at it.

But Archie had met his match; he went down a dozen times.  He
remained down the last time.

"It is wonderful," he said.  "I quite admire you.  But I've had
enough; I'm beaten."

"Spoken like a plucked 'un.  Haven't swallowed yer teeth, hey?"

"No; but I'll have a horrid black-eye."

"Raw beef, my boy; raw beef."

"Well; I confess I've caught a tartar."

"An' I caught a crab yesterday.  Wot about your eider duck?  My heye!
Johnnie, I ain't been able to sit down conweniently since.  I say,
Johnnie?"

"Well."

"Friends, hey?"

"All right."

Then the two shook hands, and young Whitechapel said if Archie would
buy two pairs of gloves he would show him how it was done.  So Archie
did, and became an apt pupil in the noble art of self-defence; which
may be used at times, but never abused.

However, Archie Broadbent never forgot that lesson in the wood.