"_TEN TO-MORROW, ARCHIE._"

"So you'll be ten years old to-morrow, Archie?"

"Yes, father; ten to-morrow.  Quite old, isn't it?  I'll soon be a
man, dad.  Won't it be fun, just?"

His father laughed, simply because Archie laughed.

"I don't know about the fun of it," he said; "for, Archie lad, your
growing a man will result in my getting old.  Don't you see?"

Archie turned his handsome brown face towards the fire, and gazed at
it--or rather into it--for a few moments thoughtfully.  Then he gave
his head a little negative kind of a shake, and, still looking
towards the fire as if addressing it, replied:

"No, no, no; I don't see it.  Other boys' fathers may grow old; mine
won't, mine couldn't, never, never."

"Dad," said a voice from the corner.  It was a very weary, rather
feeble, voice.  The owner of it occupied a kind of invalid couch, on
which he half sat and half reclined--a lad of only nine years, with a
thin, pale, old-fashioned face, and big, dark, dreamy eyes that
seemed to look you through and through as you talked to him.

"Dad."

"Yes, my dear."

"Wouldn't you like to be old really?"

"Well----," the father was beginning.

"Oh," the boy went on, "I should dearly love to be old, very old, and
very wise, like one of these!"  Here his glance reverted to a
story-book he had been reading, and which now lay on his lap.

His father and mother were used to the boy's odd remarks.  Both
parents sat here to-night, and both looked at him with a sort of fond
pity; but the child's eyes had half closed, and presently he dropped
out of the conversation, and to all intents and purposes out of the
company.

"Yes," said Archie, "ten is terribly old, I know; but is it quite a
man though?  Because mummie there said, that when Solomon became a
man, he thought, and spoke, and did everything manly, and put away
all his boy's things.  I shouldn't like to put away my bow and
arrow--what say, mum?  I shan't be altogether quite a man to-morrow,
shall I?"

"No, child.  Who put that in your head?"

"Oh, Rupert, of course!  Rupert tells me everything, and dreams such
strange dreams for me."

"You're a strange boy yourself, Archie."

His mother had been leaning back in her chair.  She now slowly
resumed her knitting.  The firelight fell on her face: it was still
young, still beautiful--for the lady was but little over thirty--yet
a shade of melancholy had overspread it to-night.

The firelight came from huge logs of wood, mingled with large pieces
of blazing coals and masses of half-incandescent peat.  A more
cheerful fire surely never before burned on a hearth.  It seemed to
take a pride in being cheerful, and in making all sorts of pleasant
noises and splutterings.  There had been bark on those logs when
first heaped on, and long white bunches of lichen, that looked like
old men's beards; but tongues of fire from the bubbling, caking coals
had soon licked those off, so that both sticks and peat were soon
aglow, and the whole looked as glorious as an autumn sunset.

And firelight surely never before fell on cosier room, nor on cosier
old-world furniture.  Dark pictures, in great gilt frames, hung on
the walls, almost hiding it; dark pictures, but with bright colours
standing out in them, which Time himself had not been able to dim;
albeit he had cracked the varnish.  Pictures you could look
into--look in through almost--and imagine figures that perhaps were
not in them at all; pictures of old-fashioned places, with quaint,
old-fashioned people and animals; pictures in which every creature or
human being looked contented and happy.  Pictures from masters' hands
many of them, and worth far more than their weight in solid gold.

And the firelight fell on curious brackets, and on a tall
corner-cabinet filled with old delf and china; fell on high,
narrow-backed chairs, and on one huge carved-oak chest that took your
mind away back to centuries long gone by and made you half believe
that there must have been "giants in those days."

The firelight fell and was reflected from silver cups, and goblets,
and candlesticks, and a glittering shield that stood on a sideboard,
their presence giving relief to the eye.  Heavy, cosy-looking
curtains depended from the window cornices, and the door itself was
darkly draped.

"Ten to-morrow.  How time does fly!"

It was the father who now spoke, and as he did so his hand was
stretched out as if instinctively, till it lay on the mother's lap.
Their eyes met, and there seemed something of sadness in the smile of
each.

"How time does fly!"

"Dad!"

The voice came once more from the corner.

"Dad!  For years and years I've noticed that you always take mummie's
hand and just look like that on the night before Archie's birthday.
Father, why----"

But at that very moment the firelight found something else to fall
upon--something brighter and fairer by far than anything it had lit
up to-night.  For the door-curtain was drawn back, and a little, wee,
girlish figure advanced on tiptoe and stood smiling in the middle of
the room, looking from one to the other.  This was Elsie, Rupert's
twin-sister.  His "beautiful sister" the boy called her, and she was
well worthy of the compliment.  Only for a moment did she stand
there, but as she did so, with her bonnie bright face, she seemed the
one thing that had been needed to complete the picture, the centre
figure against the sombre, almost solemn, background.

The fire blazed more merrily now; a jet of white smoke, that had been
spinning forth from a little mound of melting coal, jumped suddenly
into flame; while the biggest log cracked like a popgun, and threw
off a great red spark, which flew halfway across the room.

Next instant a wealth of dark-brown hair fell on Archie's shoulder,
and soft lips were pressed to his sun-dyed cheek, then bright,
laughing eyes looked into his.

"Ten to-morrow, Archie!  Aren't you proud?"

Elsie now took a footstool, and sat down close beside her invalid
brother, stretching one arm across his chest protectingly; but she
shook her head at Archie from her corner.

"Ten to-morrow, you great big, big brother Archie," she said.

Archie laughed right merrily.

"What are you going to do all?"

"Oh, such a lot of things!  First of all, if it snows----"

"It is snowing now, Archie, fast."

"Well then I'm going to shoot the fox that stole poor Cock Jock.  Oh,
my poor Cock Jock!  We'll never see him again."

"Shooting foxes isn't sport, Archie."

"No, dad; it's revenge."

The father shook his head.

"Well, I mean something else."

"Justice?"

"Yes, that is it.  Justice, dad.  Oh, I did love that cock so!  He
was so gentlemanly and gallant, father.  Oh, so kind!  And the fox
seized him just as poor Jock was carrying a crust of bread to the old
hen Ann.  He threw my bonnie bird over his shoulder and ran off,
looking so sly and wicked.  But I mean to kill him!

"Last time I fired off Branson's gun was at a magpie, a nasty,
chattering, unlucky magpie.  Old Kate says they're unlucky."

"Did you kill the magpie, Archie?"

"No, I don't think I hurt the magpie.  The gun must have gone off
when I wasn't looking; but it knocked me down, and blackened all my
shoulder, because it pushed so.  Branson said I didn't grasp it tight
enough.  But I will to-morrow, when I'm killing the fox.  Rupert,
you'll stuff the head, and we'll hang it in the hall.  Won't you,
Roup?"

Rupert smiled and nodded.

"And I'm sure," he continued, "the Ann hen was so sorry when she saw
poor Cock Jock carried away."

"Did the Ann hen eat the crust?"

"What, father?  Oh, yes, she did eat the crust!  But I think that was
only out of politeness.  I'm sure it nearly choked her."

"Well, Archie, what will you do else to-morrow?"

"Oh, then, you know, Elsie, the fun will only just be beginning,
because we're going to open the north tower of the castle.  It's
already furnished."

"And you're going to be installed as King of the North Tower?" said
his father.

"Installed, father?  Rupert, what does that mean?

"Led in with honours, I suppose."

"Oh, father, I'll instal myself; or Sissie there will; or old Kate;
or Branson, the keeper, will instal me.  That's easy.  The fun will
all come after that."