I do not think that Archie ever dressed more quickly in his life,
than he did on the morning of that auspicious day which saw him ten
years old.  To tell the truth, he had never been very much struck
over the benefits of early rising, especially on mornings in winter.
The parting between the boy and his warm bed was often of a most
affecting character.  The servant would knock, and the gong would go,
and sometimes he would even hear his father's voice in the hall
before he made up his mind to tear himself away.

But on this particular morning, no sooner had he rubbed his eyes and
began to remember things, than he sprang nimbly to the floor.  The
bath was never a terrible ordeal to Archie, as it is to some lads.
He liked it because it made him feel light and buoyant, and made him
sing like the happy birds in spring time; but to-day he did think it
would be a saving of time to omit it.  Yes, but it would be cowardly,
and on this morning of all mornings; so in he plunged, and plied the
sponge manfully.  He did not draw up the blinds till well-nigh
dressed.  For all he could see when he did do so, he might as well
have left them down.  The windows--the month was January--were hard
frozen; had it been any other day, he would have paused to admire the
beautiful frost foliage and frost ferns that nature had etched on the
panes.  He blew his breath on the glass instead, and made a clean
round hole thereon.

Glorious!  It had been snowing pretty heavily, but now the sky was
clear.  The footprints of the wily fox could be tracked.  Archie
would follow him to his den in the wild woods, and his Skye terriers
would unearth him.  Then----the boy knelt to pray, just reviewing the
past for a short time before he did so, and thinking what a deal he
had to be thankful for; how kind the good Father was to have given
him such parents, such a beautiful home, and such health, and
thinking too what a deal he had to be sorry for in the year that was
gone; then he gave thanks, and prayer for strength to resist
temptation in the time to come; and, it is needless to say, he prayed
for poor invalid Rupert.

When he got up from his knees he heard the great gong sounded, and
smiled to himself to think how early he was.  Then he blew on the
pane and looked out again.  The sky was blue and clear, and there was
not a breath of wind; the trees on the lawn, laden with their weight
of powdery snow, their branches bending earthwards, especially the
larches and spruces, were a sight to see.  And the snow-covered lawn
itself, oh, how beautiful!  Archie wondered if the streets of heaven
even could be more pure, more dazzlingly white.

Whick, whick, whick, whir--r--r--r--r!

It was a big yellow-billed blackbird, that flew out with startled cry
from a small Austrian pine tree.  As it did so, a cloud of powdery
snow rose in the air, showing how hard the frost was.

Early though it was--only a little past eight--Archie found his
father and mother in the breakfast-room, and greetings and blessings
fell on his head; brief but tender.

By-and-bye the tutor came in, looking tired; and Archie exulted over
him, as cocks crow over a fallen foe, because he was down first.

Mr. Walton was a young man of five or six and twenty, and had been in
the family for over three years, so he was quite an old friend.
Moreover, he was a man after the Squire's own heart; he was manly,
and taught Archie manliness, and had a quiet way of helping him out
of every difficulty of thought or action.  Besides, Archie and Rupert
liked him.

After breakfast Archie went up to see his brother, then downstairs,
and straight away out through the servants' hall to the barn-yards.
He had showers of blessings, and not a few gifts from the servants;
but old Scotch Kate was most sincere, for this somewhat aged spinster
really loved the lad.

At the farm-steading he had many friends to see, both hairy and
feathered.  He found some oats, which he scattered among the last,
and laughed to see them scramble, and to hear them talk.  Well,
Archie at all events believed firmly that fowls can converse.  One
very lovely red game bird, came boldly up and pecked his oats from
Archie's palm.  This was the new Cock Jock, a son of the old bird,
which the fox had taken.  The Ann hen was there too.  She was bold,
and bonnie, and saucy, and seemed quite to have given up mourning for
her lost lord.  Ann came at Archie's call, flew on to his wrist, and
after steadying herself and grumbling a little because Archie moved
his arm too much, she shoved her head and neck into the boy's pocket,
and found oats in abundance.  That was Ann's way of doing business,
and she preferred it.

The ducks were insolent and noisy; the geese, instead of taking
higher views of life, as they are wont to do, bent down their stately
necks, and went in for the scramble with the rest.  The hen turkeys
grumbled a great deal, but got their share nevertheless; while the
great gobbler strutted around doing attitudes, and rustling himself,
his neck and head blood-red and blue, and every feather as stiff as
an oyster-shell.  He looked like some Indian chief arrayed for the
war-path.  Having hurriedly fed his feathered favourites, Archie went
bounding off to let out a few dogs.  He opened the door and went
right into their house, and the consequence was that one of the
Newfoundlands threw him over in the straw, and licked his face; and
the Skye terriers came trooping round, and they also paid their
addresses to him, some of the young ones jumping over his head, while
Archie could do nothing for laughing.  When he got up he sang out
"Attention!" and lo and behold the dogs, every one looking wiser than
another, some with their considering-caps on apparently, and their
heads held knowingly to one side.

"Attention!" cried the boy.  "I am going to-day to shoot the fox that
ran off with the hen Ann's husband.  I shall want some of you.  You
Bounder, and you little Fuss, and you Tackler, come."

And come those three dogs did, while the rest, with lowered tails and
pitiful looks, slunk away to their straw.  Bounder was an enormous
Newfoundland, and Fuss and Tackler were terriers, the former a Skye,
the latter a very tiny but exceedingly game Yorkie.

Yonder, gun on shoulder, came tall, stately Branson, the keeper, clad
in velveteen, with gaiters on.  Branson was a Northumbrian, and a
grand specimen too.  He might have been somewhat slow of speech, but
he was not slow to act whenever it came to a scuffle with poachers
and this last was not an unfrequent occurrence.

"My gun, Branson?"

"It's in the kitchen, Master Archie, clean and ready; and old Kate
has put a couple of corks in it, for fear it should go off."

"Oh, it is loaded then--really loaded!"

"Aye, lad; and I've got to teach you how to carry it.  This is your
first day on the hill, mind, and a rough one it is."

Archie soon got his leggings on, and his shot-belt and shooting-cap
and everything else, in true sportsman fashion.

"What!" he said at the hall door, when he met Mr. Walton, "am I to
have my tutor with me _to-day_?"

He put strong emphasis on the last word.

"You know, Mr. Walton, that I am ten to-day.  I suppose I am
conceited, but I almost feel a man."

His tutor laughed, but by no means offensively.

"My dear Archie, I _am_ going to the hill; but don't imagine I'm
going as your tutor, or to look after you.  Oh, no!  I want to go as
your friend."

This certainly put a different complexion on the matter.

Archie considered for a moment, then replied, with charming
condescension:

"Oh, yes, of course, Mr. Walton!  You are welcome, I'm sure, to come
_as a friend_."