VII.

"_THEY'RE UP TO SOME BLACK WORK TO-NIGHT._"

Another summer flew all too fast away at Burley Old Farm and Castle
Tower.  The song of birds was hushed in the wild woods, even the
corn-crake had ceased its ventriloquistic notes, and the plaintive
wee lilt of the yellow-hammer was heard no more.  The corn grew ripe
on braeland and field, was cut down, gathered, stocked, and finally
carted away.  The swallows flew southwards, but the peewits remained
in droves, and the starlings took up their abode with the sheep.
Squires and sturdy farmers might now have been met tramping, gun in
hand, over the stubble, through the dark green turnip-fields, and
over the distant moorlands, where the crimson heather still bloomed
so bonnie.

Anon, the crisp leaves, through which the wind now swept with harsher
moan, began to change to yellows, crimsons, and all the hues of
sunset, and by-and-by it was hunting-time again.

Archie was unusually thoughtful one night while the family sat, as of
yore, round the low fire in the green parlour, Elsie and Rupert being
busy in their corner over a game of chess.

"In a brown study, Archie?" said his mother.

"No, mummie; that is, Yes, I was thinking----"

"Wonders will never cease," said Rupert, without looking up.  Archie
looked towards him, but his brother only smiled at the chessmen.  The
boy was well enough now to joke and laugh.  Best of signs and most
hopeful.

"I was thinking that my legs are almost too long now to go to the
meet on poor Scallowa.  Not that Scallowa would mind.  But don't you
think, mummie dear, that a long boy on a short pony looks odd?"

"A little, Archie."

"Well, why couldn't father let me have Tell to-morrow?  He is not
going out himself."

His father was reading the newspaper, but he looked at Archie over
it.  Though only his eyes were visible, the boy knew he was smiling.

"If you think you won't break your neck," he said, "you may take
Tell."

"Oh," Archie replied, "I'm quite sure I won't break my neck!"

The Squire laughed now outright.

"You mean you _might_ break Tell's, eh?"

"Well, dad, I didn't _say_ that."

"No, Archie, but you _thought_ it."

"I'm afraid, dad, the emphasis fell on the wrong word."

"Never mind, Archie, where the emphasis falls; but if you let Tell
fall the emphasis will fall where you won't like it."

"All right, dad, I'll chance the emphasis.  Hurrah!"

The Squire and Mr. Walton went off early next day to a distant town,
and Branson had orders to bring Tell round to the hall door at nine
sharp; which he did.  The keeper was not groom, but he was the
tallest man about, and Archie thought he would want a leg up.

Archie's mother was there, and Elsie, and Rupert, and did Kate, and
little Peter, to say nothing of Bounder and Fuss, all to see "t'
young Squire mount."  But no one expected the sight they did see when
Archie appeared; for the lad's sense of fun and the ridiculous was
quite irrepressible.  And the young rascal had dressed himself from
top to toe in his father's hunting-rig--boots, cords, red coat, hat,
and all complete.  Well, as the boots were a mile and a half too big
for him--more or less, and the breeches and coat would have held at
least three Archie Broadbents, while the hat nearly buried his head,
you may guess what sort of a guy he looked.  Bounder drew back and
barked at him.  Old Kate turned her old eyes cloudwards, and held up
her palms.  Branson for politeness' sake tried not to laugh; but it
was too much, he went off at last like a soda-water cork, and the
merriment rippled round the ring like wild-fire.  Even poor Rupert
laughed till the tears came.  Then back into the house ran Archie,
and presently re-appeared dressed in his own velvet suit.

But Archie had not altogether cooled down yet.  He had come to the
conclusion that having an actual leg up, was not an impressive way of
getting on to his hunter; so after kissing his mother, and asking
Rupert to kiss Elsie for him, he bounded at one spring to Branson's
shoulder, and from this elevation bowed and said "good morning," then
let himself neatly down to the saddle.

"Tally ho!  Yoi--cks!" he shouted.  Then clattered down the avenue,
cleared the low, white gate, and speedily disappeared across the
fields.

Archie had promised himself a rare day's run, and he was not
disappointed.  The fox was an old one and a wily one--and, I might
add, a very gentlemanly old fox--and he led the field one of the
prettiest dances that Dawson, the greyest-headed huntsman in the
North, ever remembered; but there was no kill.  No; Master Reynard
knew precisely where he was going, and got home all right, and went
quietly to sleep as soon as the pack drew off.

The consequence was that Archie found himself still ten miles from
home as gloaming was deepening into night.  Another hour he thought
would find him at Burley Old Farm.  But people never know what is
before them, especially hunting people.

It had been observed by old Kate, that after Archie left in the
morning, Bounder seemed unusually sad.  He refused his breakfast, and
behaved so strangely that the superstitious dame was quite alarmed.

"I'll say naething to the ladies," she told one of the servants,
"but, woe is me!  I fear that something awfu' is gain tae happen.  I
houp the young laddie winna brak his neck.  He rode awa' sae
daft-like.  He is just his faither a' ower again."

Bounder really had something on his mind; for dogs do think far more
than we give them credit for.  Well, the Squire was off, and also Mr.
Walton, and now his young master had flown.  What did it mean?  Why
he would find out before he was many hours older.  So ran Bounder's
cogitations.

To think was to act with Bounder; so up he jumped, and off he
trotted.  He followed the scent for miles; then he met an errant
collie, and forgetting for a time all about his master, he went off
with him.  There were many things to be done, and Bounder was not in
a hurry.  They chased cows and sheep together merely for mischief's
sake; they gave chase to some rabbits, and when the bunnies took to
their holes, they spent hours in a vain attempt to dig them out.  The
rabbits knew they could never succeed, so they quietly washed their
faces and laughed at them.

They tired at last, and with their heads and paws covered with mould,
commenced to look for mice among the moss.  They came upon a wild
bees' home in a bank, and tore this up, killing the inmates bee by
bee as they scrambled out wondering what the racket meant.  They
snapped at the bees who were returning home, and when both had their
lips well stung they concluded to leave the hive alone.  Honey wasn't
very nice after all, they said.  At sunset they bathed in a mill-dam
and swam about till nearly dusk, because the miller's boy was
obliging enough to throw in sticks for them.  Then the miller's boy
fell in himself, and Bounder took him out and laid him on the bank to
drip, neither knowing nor caring that he had saved a precious life.
But the miller's boy's mother appeared on the scene and took the
weeping lad away, inviting the dogs to follow.  She showered
blessings on their heads, especially on "the big black one's," as the
urchin called Bounder, and she put bread and milk before them and
bade them eat.  The dogs required no second bidding, and just as
Bounder was finishing his meal the sound of hoofs was heard on the
road, and out bounced Bounder, the horse swerved, the rider was
thrown, and the dog began to wildly lick his face.

"So it's you, is it, Bounder?" said Archie.  "A nice trick.  And now
I'll have to walk home a good five miles."

Bounder backed off and barked.  Why did his master go off and leave
him then?  That is what the dog was saying.

"Come on, boy," said Archie.  "There's no help for it; but I do feel
stiff."

They could go straight over the hill, and through the fields and the
wood, that was one consolation.

So off they set, and Archie soon forgot his stiffness and warmed to
his work.

Bounder followed close to his heels, as if he were a very old and a
very wise dog indeed; and harrying bees' hives, or playing with
millers' boys, could find no place in his thoughts.

Archie lost his way once or twice, and it grew quite dark.  He was
wondering what he should do when he noticed a light spring up not far
away, and commenced walking towards it.  It came from the little
window of a rustic cottage, and the boy knew at once now in which way
to steer.

Curiosity, however, impelled him to draw near to the window.  He gave
just one glance in, but very quickly drew back.  Sitting round a
table was a gang of half a dozen poachers.  He knew them as the worst
and most notorious evil-doers in all the country round.  They were
eating and drinking, and guns stood in the corners, while the men
themselves seemed ready to be off somewhere.

Away went Archie.  He wanted no nearer acquaintance with a gang like
that.

In his way home he had to pass Bob Cooper's cottage, and thought he
might just look in, because Bob had a whole book of new flies getting
ready for him, and perhaps they were done.

Bob was out, and his mother was sitting reading the good Book by the
light of a little black oil lamp.  She looked very anxious, and said
she felt so.  Her laddie had "never said where he was going.  Only
just went away out, and hadn't come back."

It was Archie's turn now to be anxious, when he thought of the gang,
and the dark work they might be after.  Bob was not among them, but
who could tell that he would not join afterwards?

He bade the widow "Good-night," and went slowly homewards thinking.

He found everyone in a state of extreme anxiety.  Hours ago Tell had
galloped to his stable door, and if there be anything more calculated
to raise alarm than another, it is the arrival at his master's place
of a riderless horse.

But Archie's appearance, alive and intact, dispelled the cloud, and
dinner was soon announced.

"Oh, by the way," said Archie's tutor, as they were going towards the
dining-room, "your old friend Bob Cooper has been here, and wants to
see you!  I think he is in the kitchen now."

Away rushed Archie, and sure enough there was Bob eating supper in
old Kate's private room.

He got up as Archie's entered, and looked shy, as people of his class
do at times.

Archie was delighted.

"I brought the flies, and some new sorts that I think will do for the
Kelpie burn," he said.

"Well, I'm going to dine, Bob; you do the same.  Don't go till I see
you.  How long have you been here?"

"Two hours, anyhow."

When Archie returned he invited Bob to the room in the Castle Tower.
Kate must come too, and Branson with his fiddle.

Away went Archie and his rough friend, and were just finishing a long
debate about flies and fishing when Kate and Peter, and Branson and
Bounder, came up the turret stairs and entered the room.

Archie then told them all of what he had seen that night at the
cottage.

"Mark my words for it," said Bob, shaking his head, "they're up to
some black work to-night."

"You mustn't go yet awhile, Bob," Archie said.  "We'll have some fun,
and you're as well where you are."