III.

_A DAY OF ADVENTURE._

If we have any tears all ready to flow, it is satisfactory to know
that they will not be required at present.  If we have poetic fire
and genius, even these gifts may for the time being be held in
reservation.  No "Ode to a Dying Fox" or "Elegy on the Death and
Burial of Reynard" will be necessary.  For Reynard did not die; nor
was he shot; at least, not sufficiently shot.

In one sense this was a pity.  It resulted in mingled humiliation and
bitterness for Archie and for the dogs.  He had pictured to himself a
brief moment of triumph when he should return from the chase, bearing
in his hand the head of his enemy--the murderer of the Ann hen's
husband--and having the brush sticking out of his jacket pocket;
return to be crowned, figuratively speaking, with festive laurel by
Elsie, his sister, and looked upon by all the servants with a feeling
of awe as a future Nimrod.

In another sense it was not a pity; that is, for the fox.  This sable
gentleman had enjoyed a good run, which made him hungry, and as happy
as only a fox can be who knows the road through the woods and wilds
to a distant burrow, where a bed of withered weeds awaits him, and
where a nice fat hen is hidden.  When Reynard had eaten his dinner
and licked his chops, he laid down to sleep, no doubt laughing in his
paw at the boy's futile efforts to capture or kill him, and promising
himself the pleasure of a future moonlight visit to Burley Old Farm,
from which he should return with the Ann hen herself on his shoulder.

Yes, Archie's hunt had been unsuccessful, though the day had not
ended without adventure, and he had enjoyed the pleasures of the
chase.

Bounder, the big Newfoundland, first took up the scent, and away he
went with Fuss and Tackler at his heels, the others following as well
as they could, restraining the dogs by voice and gesture.  Through
the spruce woods, through a patch of pine forest, through a wild
tangle of tall, snow-laden furze, out into the open, over a stream,
and across a wide stretch of heathery moorland, round quarries and
rocks, and once more into a wood.  This time it was stunted larch,
and in the very centre of it, close by a cairn of stones, Bounder
said--and both Fuss and Tackler acquiesced--that Reynard had his den.
But how to get him out?

"You two little chaps get inside," Bounder seemed to say.  "I'll
stand here; and as soon as he bolts, I shall make the sawdust fly out
of him, you see!"

Escape for the fox seemed an impossibility.  He had more than one
entrance to his den, but all were carefully blocked up by the keeper
except his back and front door.  Bounder guarded the latter, Archie
went to watch by the former.

"Keep quiet and cool now, and aim right behind the shoulder."

Quiet and cool indeed! how could he?  Under such exciting
circumstances, his heart was thumping like a frightened pigeon's, and
his cheeks burning with the rush of blood to them.

He knelt down with his gun ready, and kept his eyes on the hole.  He
prayed that Reynard might not bolt by the front door, for that would
spoil his sport.

The terrier made it very warm for the fox in his den.  Small though
the little Yorkie was, his valour was wonderful.  Out in the open
Reynard could have killed them one by one, but here the battle was
unfair, so after a few minutes of a terrible scrimmage the fox
concluded to bolt.

Archie saw his head at the hole, half protruded then drawn back, and
his heart thumped now almost audibly.

Would he come?  Would he dare it?

Yes, the fox dared it, and came.  He dashed out with a wild rush,
like a little hairy hurricane.  "Aim behind the shoulder!"  Where was
the shoulder?  Where was anything but a long sable stream of
something feathering through the snow?

Bang! bang! both barrels.  And down rolled the fox.  Yes, no.  Oh
dear, it was poor Fuss!  The fox was half a mile away in a minute.

Fuss lost blood that stained the snow brown as it fell on it.  And
Archie shed bitter tears of sorrow and humiliation.

"Oh, Fuss, my dear, dear doggie!" he cried, "I didn't mean to hurt
you."

The Skye terrier was lying on the keeper's knees and having a snow
styptic.

Soon the blood ceased to flow, and Fuss licked his young master's
hands, and presently got down and ran around and wanted to go to
earth again; and though Archie felt he could never forgive himself
for his awkwardness, he was so happy to see that Fuss was not much
the worse after all.

But there would be no triumphant home-returning; he even began to
doubt if ever he would be a sportsman.  Then Branson consoled him,
and told him he himself didn't do any better when he first took to
the hill.

"It is well," said Mr. Walton, laughing, "that you didn't shoot me
instead."

"Ye--es," said Archie slowly, looking at Fuss.  It was evident he was
not quite convinced that Mr. Walton was right.

"Fuss is none the worse," cried Branson.  "Oh, I can tell you it does
these Scotch dogs good to have a drop or two of lead in them!  It
makes them all the steadier, you know."

About an hour after, to his exceeding delight, Archie shot a hare.
Oh joy!  Oh day of days!  His first hare!  He felt a man now, from
the top of his Astrachan cap to the toe caps of his shooting-boots.

Bounder picked it up, and brought it and laid it at Archie's feet.

"Good dog! you shall carry it."

Bounder did so most delightedly.

They stopped at an outlying cottage on their way home.  It was a
long, low, thatched building, close by a wood, a very humble dwelling
indeed.

A gentle-faced widow woman opened to their knock.  She looked scared
when she saw them, and drew back.

"Oh!" she said, "I hope Robert hasn't got into trouble again?"

"No, no, Mrs. Cooper, keep your mind easy, Bob's a' right at present.
We just want to eat our bit o' bread and cheese in your sheeling."

"And right welcome ye are, sirs.  Come in to the fire.  Here's a
broom to brush the snow fra your leggins."

Bounder marched in with the rest, with as much swagger and
independence as if the cottage belonged to him.  Mrs. Cooper's cat
determined to defend her hearth and home against such intrusion, and
when Bounder approached the former, she stood on her dignity, back
arched, tail erect, hair on end from stem to stern, with her ears
back, and green fire lurking in her eyes.  Bounder stood patiently
looking at her.  He would not put down the hare, and he could not
defend himself with it in his mouth; so he was puzzled.  Pussy,
however, brought matters to a crisis.  She slapped his face, then
bolted right up the chimney.  Bounder put down the hare now, and gave
a big sigh as he lay down beside it.

"No, Mrs. Cooper, Bob hasn't been at his wicked work for some time.
He's been gi'en someone else a turn I s'pose, eh?"

"Oh, sirs," said the widow, "it's no wi' my will he goes poachin'!
If his father's heid were above the sod he daren't do it.  But, poor
Bob, he's all I have in the world, and he works hard--sometimes."

Branson laughed.  It was a somewhat sarcastic laugh; and young Archie
felt sorry for Bob's mother, she looked so unhappy.

"Aye, Mrs. Cooper, Bob works hard sometimes, especially when settin'
girns for game.  Ha! ha!  Hullo!" he added, "speak of angels and they
appear.  Here comes Bob himself!"

Bob entered, looked defiantly at the keeper, but doffed his cap and
bowed to Mr. Walton and Archie.  "Mother," he said, "I'm going out."

"Not far, Bob, lad; denner's nearly ready."

Bob had turned to leave, but he wheeled round again almost fiercely.
He was a splendid young specimen of a Borderer, six feet if an inch,
and well-made to boot.  No extra flesh, but hard and tough as copper
bolts.  "Denner!" he growled.  "Aye, denner to be sure--taties and
salt!  Ha! and gentry live on the fat o' the land!  If I snare a
rabbit, if I dare to catch one o' God's own cattle on God's own
hills, I'm a felon; I'm to be taken and put in gaol--shot even if I
dare resist!  Yas, mother, I'll be in to denner," and away he strode.

"Potatoes and salt!"  Archie could not help thinking about that.  And
he was going away to his own bright home and to happiness.  He
glanced round him.  at the bare, clay walls, with their few bits of
daubs of pictures, and up at the blackened rafters, where a cheese
stood--one poor, hard cheese--and on which hung some bacon and
onions.  He could not repress a sigh, almost as heartfelt as that
which Bounder gave when he lay down beside the hare.

When the keeper and tutor rose to go, Archie stopped behind with
Bounder just a moment.  When they came out, Bounder had no hare.

Yet that hare was the first Archie had shot, and--well, he had meant
to astonish Elsie with this proof of his prowess; but the hare was
better to be left where it was--he had earned a blessing.

The party were in the wood when Bob Cooper, the poacher, sprang up as
if from the earth and confronted them.

"I came here a purpose," he said to Branson.  "This is not your wood;
even if it was I wouldn't mind.  What did you want at my mother's
hoose?"

"Nothing; and I've nothing to say to ye."

"Haven't ye?  But ye were in our cottage.  It's no for nought the
glaud whistles."

"I don't want to quarrel," said Branson, "especially after speakin'
to your mother; she's a kindly soul, and I'm sorry for her and for
you yoursel', Bob."

Bob was taken aback.  He had expected defiance, exasperation, and he
was prepared to fight.

Archie stood trembling as these two athletes looked each other in the
eyes.

But gradually Bob's face softened; he bit his lip and moved
impatiently.  The allusion to his mother had touched his heart.

"I didn't want sich words, Branson.  I--may be I don't deserve 'em.
I--hang it all, give me a grip o' your hand!"

Then away went Bob as quickly as he had come.

Branson glanced at his retreating figure one moment.

"Well," he said, "I never thought I'd shake hands wi' Bob Cooper!  No
matter; better please a fool than fecht 'im."

"Branson!"

"Yes, Master Archie."

"I don't think Bob's a fool; and I'm sure that, bad as he is, he
loves his mother."

"Quite right, Archie," said Mr. Walton.

Archie met his father at the gate, and ran towards him to tell him
all his adventures about the fox and the hare.  But Bob Cooper and
everybody else was forgotten when he noticed what and whom he had
behind him.  The "whom" was Branson's little boy, Peter; the "what"
was one of the wildest-looking--and, for that matter, one of the
wickedest-looking--Shetland ponies it is possible to imagine.
Long-haired, shaggy, droll, and daft; but these adjectives do not
half describe him.

"Why, father, wherever----"

"He's your birthday present, Archie."

The boy actually flushed red with joy.  His eyes sparkled as he
glanced from his father to the pony and back at his father again.

"Dad," he said at last, "I know now what old Kate means about 'her
cup being full.'  Father, my cup overflows!"

Well, Archie's eyes were pretty nearly overflowing anyhow.