IV.

_IN THE OLD CASTLE TOWER._

They were all together that evening in the green parlour as usual,
and everybody was happy and merry.  Even Rupert was sitting up and
laughing as much as Elsie.

The clatter of tongues prevented them hearing Mary's tapping at the
door; and the carpet being so thick and soft, she was not seen until
right in the centre of the room.

"Why, Mary," cried Elsie, "I got such a start, I thought you were a
ghost!"

Mary looks uneasily around her.

"There be one ghost, Miss Elsie, comes out o' nights, and walks about
the old castle."

"Was that what you came in to tell us, Mary?"

"Oh, no, sir!  If ye please, Bob Cooper is in the yard, and he wants
to speak to Master Archie.  I wouldn't let him go if I were you,
ma'am."

Archie's mother smiled.  Mary was a privileged little parlour maiden,
and ventured at times to make suggestions.

"Go and see what he wants, dear," said his mother to Archie.

It was a beautiful clear moonlight night, with just a few white
snow-laden clouds lying over the woods, no wind and never a hush save
the distant and occasional yelp of a dog.

"Bob Cooper!"

"That's me, Master Archie.  I couldn't rest till I'd seen ye the
night.  The hare----"

"Oh! that's really nothing, Bob Cooper!"

"But allow me to differ.  It's no' the hare altogether.  I know where
to find fifty.  It was the way it was given.  Look here, lad, and
this is what I come to say, Branson and you have been too much for
Bob Cooper.  The day I went to that wood to thrash him, and I'd hae
killed him, an I could.  Ha! ha!  I shook hands with him!  Archie
Broadbent, your father's a gentleman, and they say you're a chip o'
t' old block.  I believe 'em, and look, see, lad, I'll never be seen
in your preserves again.  Tell Branson so.  There's my hand on't.
Nay, never be afear'd to touch it.  Good-night.  I feel better now."

And away strode the poacher, and Archie could hear the sound of his
heavy tread crunching through the snow long after he was out of sight.

"You seem to have made a friend, Archie," said his father, when the
boy reported the interview.

"A friend," added Mr. Walton with a quiet smile, "that I wouldn't be
too proud of."

"Well," said the Squire, "certainly Bob Cooper is a rough nut, but
who knows what his heart may be like?"

Archie's room in the tower was opened in state next day.  Old Kate
herself had lit fires in it every night for a week before, though she
never would go up the long dark stair without Peter.  Peter was only
a mite of a boy, but wherever he went, Fuss, the Skye terrier,
accompanied him, and it was universally admitted that no ghost in its
right senses would dare to face Fuss.

Elsie was there of course, and Rupert too, though he had to be almost
carried up by stalwart Branson.  But what a glorious little room it
was when you were in it!  A more complete boy's own room could
scarcely be imagined.  It was a _beau ideal_; at least Rupert and
Archie and Elsie thought so, and even Mr. Walton and Branson said the
same.

Let me see now, I may as well try to describe it, but much must be
left to imagination.  It was not a very big room, only about twelve
feet square; for although the tower appeared very large from outside,
the abnormal thickness of its walls detracted from available space
inside it.  There was one long window on each side, and a chair and
small table could be placed on the sill of either.  But this was
curtained off at night, when light came from a huge lamp that
depended from the ceiling, and the rays from which fought for
preference with those from the roaring fire on the stone hearth.  The
room was square.  A door, also curtained, gave entrance from the
stairway at one corner, and at each of two other corners were two
other doors leading into turret chambers, and these tiny, wee rooms
were very delightful, because you were out beyond the great tower
when you sat in them, and their slits of windows granted you a grand
view of the charming scenery everywhere about.

The furniture was rustic in the extreme--studiously so.  There was a
tall rocking-chair, a great daïs or sofa, and a recline for
Rupert--"poor Rupert" as he was always called--the big chair was the
guest's seat.

The ornaments on the walls had been principally supplied by Branson.
Stuffed heads of foxes, badgers, and wild cats, with any number of
birds' and beasts' skins, artistically mounted.  There were also
heads of horned deer, bows and arrows--these last were Archie's
own--and shields and spears that Uncle Ramsey had brought home from
savage wars in Africa and Australia.  The daïs was covered with bear
skins, and there was quite a quantity of skins on the floor instead
of a carpet.  So the whole place looked primeval and romantic.

The bookshelf was well supplied with readable tales, and a harp stood
in a corner, and on this, young though she was, Elsie could already
play.

The guest to-night was old Kate.  She sat in the tall chair in a
corner opposite the door, Branson occupied a seat near her, Rupert
was on his recline, and Archie and Elsie on a skin, with little Peter
nursing wounded Fuss in a corner.

That was the party.  But Archie had made tea, and handed it round;
and sitting there with her cup in her lap, old Kate really looked a
strange, weird figure.  Her face was lean and haggard, her eyes
almost wild, and some half-grey hair peeped from under an
uncanny-looking cap of black crape, with long depending strings of
the same material.

Old Kate was housekeeper and general female factotum.  She was really
a distant relation of the Squire, and so had it very much her own way
at Burley Old Farm.

She came originally from "just ayant the Border," and had a wealth of
old-world stories to tell, and could sing queer old bits of ballads
too, when in the humour.

Old Kate, however, said she could not sing to-night, for she felt as
yet unused to the place; and whether they (the boys) believed in
ghosts or not she (Kate) did, and so, she said, had her father before
her.  But she told stories--stories of the bloody raids of long, long
ago, when Northumbria and the Scottish Borders were constantly at
war--stories that kept her hearers enthralled while they listened,
and to which the weird looks and strange voice of the narrator lent a
peculiar charm.

Old Kate was just in the very midst of one of these when, twang! one
of the strings of Elsie's harp broke.  It was a very startling sound
indeed; for as it went off it seemed to emit a groan that rang
through the chamber, and died away in the vaulted roof.  Elsie crept
closer to Archie, and Peter with Fuss drew nearer the fire.

The ancient dame, after being convinced that the sound was nothing
uncanny, proceeded with her narrative.  It was a long one, with an
old house in it by the banks of a winding river in the midst of woods
and wilds--a house that, if its walls had been able to speak, could
have told many a marrow-freezing story of bygone times.

There was a room in this house that was haunted.  Old Kate was just
coming to this, and to the part of her tale on which the ghosts on a
certain night of the year always appeared in this room, and stood
over a dark stain in the centre of the floor.

"And ne'er a ane," she was saying, "could wash that stain awa'.
Weel, bairns, one moonlicht nicht, and at the deadest hoor o' the
nicht, nothing would please the auld laird but he maun leave his
chaimber and go straight along the damp, dreary, long corridor to the
door o' the hauntid room.  It was half open, and the moon's licht
danced in on the fleer.  He was listening--he was looking----"

But at this very moment, when old Kate had lowered her voice to a
whisper, and the tension at her listeners' heart-strings was the
greatest, a soft, heavy footstep was heard coming slowly, painfully
as it might be, up the turret stairs.

To say that every one was alarmed would but poorly describe their
feelings.  Old Kate's eyes seemed as big as watch-glasses.  Elsie
screamed, and clung to Archie.

"Who--oo--'s--  Who's there?" cried Branson, and his voice sounded
fearful and far away.

No answer; but the steps drew nearer and nearer.  Then the curtain
was pushed aside, and in dashed--what? a ghost?--no, only honest
great Bounder.

Bounder had found out there was something going on, and that Fuss was
up there, and he didn't see why he should be left out in the cold.
That was all; but the feeling of relief when he did appear was
unprecedented.

Old Kate required another cup of tea after that.  Then Branson got
out his fiddle from a green baize bag; and if he had not played those
merry airs, I do not believe that old Kate would have had the courage
to go downstairs that night at all.

Archie's pony was great fun at first.  The best of it was that he had
never been broken in.  The Squire, or rather his bailiff, had bought
him out of a drove; so he was, literally speaking, as wild as the
hills, and as mad as a March hare.  But he soon knew Archie and
Elsie, and, under Branson's supervision, Scallowa was put into
training on the lawn.  He was led, he was walked, he was galloped.
But he reared, and kicked, and rolled whenever he thought of it, and
yet there was not a bit of vice about him.

Spring had come, and early summer itself, before Scallowa permitted
Archie to ride him, and a week or two after this the difficulty would
have been to have told which of the two was the wilder and dafter,
Archie or Scallowa.  They certainly had managed to establish the most
amicable relations.  Whatever Scallowa thought, Archie agreed to, and
_vice versa_, and the pair were never out of mischief.  Of course
Archie was pitched off now and then, but he told Elsie he did not
mind it, and in fact preferred it to constant uprightness: it was a
change.  But the pony never ran away, because Archie always had a bit
of carrot in his pocket to give him when he got up off the ground.

Mr. Walton assured Archie that these carrots accounted for his many
tumbles.  And there really did seem to be a foundation of truth about
this statement.  For of course the pony had soon come to know that it
was to his interest to throw his rider, and acted accordingly.  So
after a time Archie gave the carrot-payment up, and matters were
mended.

It was only when school was over that Archie went for a canter,
unless he happened to get up very early in the morning for the
purpose of riding.  And this he frequently did, so that, before the
summer was done, Scallowa and Archie were as well known over all the
countryside as the postman himself.

Archie's pony was certainly not very long in the legs, but
nevertheless the leaps he could take were quite surprising.

On the second summer after Archie got this pony both horse and rider
were about perfect in their training, and in the following winter he
appeared in the hunting-field with the greatest _sang-froid_,
although many of the farmers, on their weight-carrying hunters, could
have jumped over Archie, Scallowa, and all.  The boy had a long way
to ride to the hounds, and he used to start off the night before.  He
really did not care where he slept.  Old Kate used to make up a
packet of sandwiches for him, and this would be his dinner and
breakfast.  Scallowa he used to tie up in some byre, and as often as
not Archie would turn in beside him among the straw.  In the morning
he would finish the remainder of Kate's sandwiches, make his toilet
in some running stream or lake, and be as fresh as a daisy when the
meet took place.

Both he and Scallowa were somewhat uncouth-looking.  Elsie, his
sister, had proposed that he should ride in scarlet, it would look so
romantic and pretty; but Archie only laughed, and said he would not
feel at home in such finery, and his "Eider Duck"-as he sometimes
called the pony--would not know him.  "Besides, Elsie," he said,
"lying down among straw with scarlets on wouldn't improve them."

But old Kate had given him a birthday present of a little Scotch
Glengarry cap with a real eagle's feather, and he always wore this in
the hunting-field.  He did so for two reasons; first, it pleased old
Kate; and, secondly, the cap stuck to his head; no breeze could blow
it off.

It was not long before Archie was known in the field as the "Little
Demon Huntsman."  And, really, had you seen Scallowa and he
feathering across a moor, his bonnet on the back of his head, and the
pony's immense mane blowing straight back in the wind, you.  would
have thought the title well earned.  In a straight run the pony could
not keep up with the long-legged horses; but Archie and he could dash
through a wood, and even swim streams, and take all manner of short
cuts, so that he was always in at the death.

The most remarkable trait in Archie's riding was that he could take
flying leaps from heights: only a Shetland pony could have done this.
Archie knew every yard of country, and he rather liked heading his
Lilliputian nag right away for a knoll or precipice, and bounding off
it like a roebuck or Scottish deerhound.  The first time he was
observed going straight for a bank of this kind he created quite a
sensation.  "The boy will be killed!" was the cry, and every lady
then drew rein and held her breath.

Away went Scallowa, and they were on the bank in the air, and landed
safely, and away again in less time that it takes me to tell of the
exploit.

The secret of the lad's splendid management of the pony was this: he
loved Scallowa, and Scallowa knew it.  He not only loved the little
horse, but studied his ways, so he was able to train him to do quite
a number of tricks, such as lying down "dead" to command, kneeling to
ladies--for Archie was a gallant lad--trotting round and round
circus-fashion, and ending every performance by coming and kissing
his master.  Between you and me, reader, a bit of carrot had a good
deal to do with the last trick, if not with the others also.

It occurred to this bold boy once that he might be able to take
Scallowa up the dark tower stairs to the boy's own room.  The
staircase was unusually wide, and the broken stones in it had been
repaired with logs of wood.  He determined to try; but he practised
riding him blindfolded first.  Then one day he put him at the stairs;
he himself went first with the bridle in his hand.

What should he do if he failed?  That is a question he did not stop
to answer.  One thing was quite certain, Scallowa could not turn and
go down again.  On they went, the two of them, all in the dark,
except that now and then a slit in the wall gave them a little light
and, far beneath, a pretty view of the country.  On and on, and up
and up, till within ten feet of the top.

Here Scallowa came to a dead stop, and the conversation between
Archie and his steed, although the latter did not speak English,
might have been as follows:

"Come on, 'Eider Duck'!"

"Not a step farther, thank you."

"Come on, old horsie!  You can't turn, you know."

"No; not another step if I stay here till doomsday in the afternoon.
Going upstairs becomes monotonous after a time.  No; I'll be shot if
I budge!"

"You'll be shot if you don't.  Gee up, I say; gee up!"

"Gee up yourself; I'm going to sleep."

"I say, Scallowa, look here."

"What's that, eh? a bit of carrot?  Oh, here goes!"

And in a few seconds more Scallowa was in the room, and had all he
could eat of cakes and carrots.

Archie was so delighted with his success that he must go to the
castle turret, and halloo for Branson and old Kate to come and see
what he had got in the tower.

Old Kate's astonishment knew no bounds, and Branson laughed till his
sides were sore.  Bounder, the Newfoundland, appeared also to
appreciate the joke, and smiled from lug to lug.

"How will you get him down?"

"Carrots," said Archie; "carrots, Branson.  The 'Duck' will do
anything for carrots."

The "Duck," however, was somewhat nervous at first, and half-way
downstairs even the carrots appeared to have lost their charm.

While Archie was wondering what he should do now, a loud explosion
seemed to shake the old tower to its very foundation.  It was only
Bounder barking in the rear of the pony.  But the sound had the
desired effect, and down came the "Duck," and away went Archie, so
that in a few minutes both were out on the grass.

And here Scallowa must needs relieve his feelings by lying down and
rolling; while great Bounder, as if he had quite appreciated all the
fun of the affair, and must do something to allay his excitement,
went tearing round in a circle, as big dogs do, so fast that it was
almost impossible to see anything of him distinctly.  He was a dark
shape _et preterea nihil_.

But after a time Scallowa got near to the stair, which only proves
that there is nothing in reason you cannot teach a Shetland pony, if
you love him and understand him.

The secret lies in the motto, "Fondly and firmly."  But, as already
hinted, a morsel of carrot comes in handy at times.