IX.

"_I'LL WRITE A LETTER HOME._"

The summer wore away, autumn came, the harvest was made good, and in
spite of the drought it turned out well; for the paddocks chosen for
agricultural produce seldom lacked moisture, lying as they did on the
low lands near the creek, and on rich ground reclaimed from the scrub.

Our Bushmen were congratulating themselves on the success of their
farming; for the banking account of all three was building itself, so
to speak, slowly, but surely.

Archie was now quite as wealthy as either of his companions; for his
speculations, instigated by his friend Winslow, had turned out well;
so his stock had increased tenfold, and he had taken more pasture to
the westward and north, near where Bob's and Harry's sheep now were;
for Craig's advice had been acted on.

None too soon though; for early in the winter an old shepherd arrived
in haste at the homesteading to report an outbreak of inflammatory
catarrh among the flocks still left on the lower pastures.

The events that quickly followed put Archie in mind of the "dark
days" at Burley Old Farm, when fat beasts were dying in twos and
threes day after day.  Sheep affected with this strange ailment lived
but a day or two, and the only thing to do was to kill them on the
very first symptoms of the ailment appearing.  They were then just
worth the price of their hides and tallow.

Considering the amount of extra work entailed, and the number of
extra hands to be hired, and the bustle and stir and anxiety caused
by the outbreak, it is doubtful if it would not have been better to
bury them as they fell, skin and all.

This was one of the calamities which Winslow had pointed out to
Archie as likely to occur.  But it was stamped out at last.  The
sheep that remained were sent away to far-off pastures; being kept
quite separate, however, from the other flocks.  So the cloud passed
away, and the squatters could breathe freely again, and hope for a
good lambing season, when winter passed away, and spring-time came
once more.

"Bob," said Archie one evening, as they all sat round the hearth
before retiring to bed, "that fire looks awfully cosy, doesn't it?
And all the house is clean and quiet--oh, so quiet and delightful
that I really wonder anyone could live in a city or anywhere near the
roar and din of railway trains!  Then our farm is thriving far beyond
anything we could have dared to expect.  We are positively getting
rich quickly, if, indeed, we are not rich already.  And whether it be
winter or summer, the weather is fine, glorious sometimes.  Indeed,
it is like a foretaste of heaven, Bob, in my humble opinion, to get
up early and wander out of doors."

"Well," said Bob, "small reason to be ashamed to say that, my boy."

"Hold on, Bob, I'm coming to the part I'm ashamed of; just you smoke
your pipe and keep quiet.  Well, so much in love am I with the new
country that I'm beginning to forget the old.  Of course I'll
always--always be a true Englishman, and I'd go back to-morrow to lay
down my life for the dear old land if it was in danger.  But it
isn't, it doesn't want us, it doesn't need us; it is full to
overflowing, and I daresay they can do without any of us.  But, Bob,
there is my dear old father, mother, Elsie, and Rupert.  Now, if it
were only possible to have them here.  But I know my father is wedded
to Burley, and his life's dream is to show his neighbours a thing or
two.  I know too that if he starts machinery again he will be
irretrievably lost."

Archie paused, and the kangaroo looked up into his face as much as to
say, "Go on, I'm all attention."

"Well, Bob, if I make a pile here and go home, I'll just get as fond
of Burley as I was when a boy, and I may lose my pile too.  It seems
selfish to speak so, but there is no necessity for it.  So I mean to
try to get father to emigrate.  Do you think such a thing is
possible, Bob?"

"It's the same with men as with trees, Archie.  You must loosen the
ground about them, root by root must be carefully taken up if you
want to transplant them and you must take so much of the old earth
with them that they hardly know they are being moved.  Sarah, bring
the coffee.  As for my own part, Archie, I am going back; but it is
only just to see the old cottage, the dear old woods, and--and my
mother's grave."

"Yes," said Archie, thoughtfully.  "Well, root by root you said,
didn't you?"

"Aye, root by root."

"Then I'm going to begin.  Rupert and Elsie will be the first roots.
Roup isn't over strong yet.  This country will make a man of him.
Bob and you, Harry, can go to bed as soon as you like.  I'm going out
to think and walk about a bit.  Stick another log or two on the fire,
and as soon as you have all turned in I'll write a letter home.  I'll
begin the uprooting, though it does seem cruel to snap old ties."

"Well," said Harry, "thank goodness, I've got no ties to snap.  And I
think with you, Archie, that the old country isn't a patch on the
new.  Just think o' the London fogs.  You mind them, Sarah."

"I does, 'Arry."

"And the snow."

"And the slush, 'Arry."

"And the drizzle."

"And the kitchen beetles, boy.  It would take a fat little lot to
make me go back out o' the sunshine.  Here's the coffee."

"Keep mine hot, Sarah."

Away went Archie out into the night, out under the stars, out in the
falling dew, and his kangaroo went jumping and hopping after him.

The sky was very bright and clear to-night, though fleece-shaped,
snow-white clouds lay low on the horizon, and the moon was rising
through the distant woods, giving the appearance of some gigantic
fire as its beams glared red among the topmost branches.

There was the distant howling or yelling of dingoes, and the low,
half-frightened bleat of sheep, and there was the rippling murmur of
the stream not far off, but all else was still.

It was two hours before Archie found his way back.  The kangaroo saw
him to the door, then went off to curl up in the shed till the hot
beams of the morning sun should lure him forth to breakfast.

And all alone sat Archie, by the kitchen table, writing a letter home
by the light of candles made on the steading.

It was very still now in the house--only the ticking of the clock,
the occasional whirr of some insect flying against the window,
anxious to come into the light and warmth and scratching of the young
man's pen.

Surely the dog knew that Archie was writing home, for presently he
got slowly up from his corner and came and leant his head on his
master's knee, in that wise and kindly way collies have of showing
their thoughts and feelings.  Archie must leave off writing for a
moment to smooth and pet the honest "bawsent" head.

Now it would be very easy for us to peep over Archie's shoulder and
read what he was writing, but that would be rude; anything rather
than rudeness and impoliteness.  Rather, for instance, let us take a
voyage across the wide, terribly wide ocean, to pay a visit to Burley
Old Farm, and wait till the letter comes.