The cottage in which widow Cooper had lived ever since the death of
her husband was a very primitive and a very poor one.  It consisted
only of two rooms, what are called in Scotland "a butt and a ben."
Bob had been only a little barefooted boy when his father died, and
probably hardly missed him.  He had been sent regularly to school
before then, but not since, for his mother had been unable to give
him further education.  All their support was the morsel of garden, a
pig or two, and the fowls, coupled with whatever the widow could make
by knitting ribbed stockings for the farmer folks around.  Bob grew
up wild, just as the birds and beasts of the hills and woods do.
While, however, he was still a little mite of a chap, the keepers
even seldom molested him.  It was only natural, they thought, for a
boy to act the part of a squirrel or polecat, and to be acquainted
with every bird's nest and rabbit's burrow within a radius of miles.
When he grew a little older and a trifle bigger they began to warn
him off, and when one day he was met marching away with a cap full of
pheasant's eggs, he received as severe a drubbing as ever a lad got
at the hands of a gamekeeper.

Bob had grown worse instead of better after this.  The keepers became
his sworn enemies, and there was a spice of danger and adventure in
vexing and outwitting them.

Unfortunately, in spite of all his mother said to the contrary, Bob
was firmly impressed with the notion that game of every kind, whether
fur or feather, belonged as much to him as to the gentry who tried to
preserve them.  The fresh air was free; nobody dared to claim the
sunshine.  Then why the wild birds, and the hares and rabbits?

Evil company corrupts good manners.  That is what his copy-book used
to tell him.  But Bob soon learned to laugh at that, and it is no
wonder that as he reached manhood his doings and daring as a poacher
became noted far and near.

He was beyond the control of his mother.  She could only advise him,
read to him, pray for him; but I fear in vain.  Only be it known that
Bob Cooper really loved this mother of his, anomalous though it may
seem.

Well, the keepers had been very harsh with him, and the gentry were
harsh with him, and eke the law itself.  Law indeed!  Why Bob was all
but an outlaw, so intense was his hatred to, and so great his
defiance of the powers that be.

It was strange that what force could not effect, a few soft words
from Branson, and Archie's gift of the hare he had shot on his
birthday, brought about.  Bob Cooper's heart could not have been
wholly adamantine, therefore he began to believe that after all a
game-keeper might be a good fellow, and that there might even exist
gentlefolks whose chief delight was not the oppression of the poor.
He began after that to seek for honest work; but, alas! people looked
askance at him, and he found that the path of virtue was one not
easily regained when once deviated from.

His quondam enemy, however, Branson, spoke many a good word for him,
and Bob was getting on, much to his mother's delight and
thankfulness, when the final and crashing blow fell.

Poor old widow Cooper!  For years and years she had but two comforts
in this world; one was her Bible, and the other--do not smile when I
tell you--was her pipie.

Oh! you know, the poor have not much to make them happy and to cheer
their loneliness, so why begrudge the widow her morsel of tobacco?

In the former she learned to look forward to another and a better
world, far beyond that bit of blue sky she could see at the top of
her chimney on a summer's night--a world where everything would be
bright and joyful, where there would be no vexatious rheumatism, no
age, and neither cold nor care.  From the latter she drew sweet
forgetfulness of present trouble, and happy recollections of bygone
years.

Sitting there by the hearth all alone--her son perhaps away on the
hill--her thoughts used often-times to run away with her.  Once more
she would be young, once again her hair was a bonnie brown, her form
little and graceful, roses mantling in her cheeks, soft light in her
eyes.  And she is wandering through the tasselled broom with David by
her side.  "David!  Heigho!" she would sigh as she shook the ashes
from her pipie.  "Poor David! it seems a long, long time since he
left me for the better land," and the sunlight would stream down the
big, open chimney and fall upon her skinny hands--fall upon the
elfin-like locks that escaped from beneath her cap--fall, too, on the
glittering pages of the Book on her lap like a promise of better
things to come.

Before that sad night, when, while sitting up waiting for her son,
she was startled by the sudden noise of the struggle that commenced
at her door, she thought she had reason to be glad and thankful for
the softening of her hoy's heart.

Then all her joy collapsed, her hopes collapsed--fell around her like
a house of cards.  It was a cruel, a terrible blow.

The policeman had carried her in, laid her on the bed with a rough
sort of kindness, made up the fire, then gone out and thought no more
about her.

How she had spent the night need hardly be said; it is better
imagined.  She had dropped asleep at last, and when she awoke from
fevered dreams it was daylight out of doors, but darkness in the hut.
The window and door were snowed up, and only a faint pale light
shimmered in through the chimney, falling on the fireless hearth--a
dismal sight.

Many times that day she had tried to rise, but all in vain.  The cold
grew more intense as night drew on, and it did its work on the poor
widow's weakened frame.  Her dreams grew more bright and happy
though, as her body became numbed and insensible.  It was as though
the spirit were rejoicing in its coming freedom.  But dreams left her
at last.  Then all was still in the house, save the ticking of the
old clock that hung against the wall.

The Squire speedily effected Bob Cooper's freedom, and he felt he had
really done a good thing.

"Now, Robert," he told him, "you have had a sad experience.  Let it
be a lesson to you.  I'll give you a chance.  Come to Burley, and
Branson will find you honest work as long as you like to do it."

"Lord love you, sir!" cried Bob.  "There are few gentry like you."

"I don't know so much about that, Robert.  You are not acquainted
with all the good qualities of gentlefolks yet.  But now, Branson,
how are we all to get home?"

"Oh, I know!" said Archie.  "Scallowa can easily bear Branson's
weight, and I will ride the big hunter along with Bob."

So this was arranged.

It was getting gloamed ere they neared the widow's lonesome hut.  The
Squire with Branson had left Archie and Bob, and cut across the
frozen moor by themselves.

"How glad my mother will be!" said Bob.

And now they came in sight of the cottage, and Bob rubbed his eyes
and looked again and again, for no smoke came from the chimney, no
signs of life was about.

The icicles hung long and strong from the eaves, one side of the hut
was entirely overblown with drift, and the door in the other looked
more like the entrance to some cave in Greenland north.  Bad enough
this was; but ah, in the inside of the poor little house the driven
snow met them as they pushed open the door!  It had blown down the
wide chimney, covered the hearth, formed a wreath like a sea-wave on
the floor, and even o'er-canopied the bed itself.  And the widow, the
mother, lay underneath.  No, not dead; she breathed, at least.

[Illustration: "The icicles hung long and strong from the eaves; and
the door looked more like the entrance to some cave in Greenland
north.  Bad enough this was; but ah, in the inside of the poor little
house the driven snow met them as they pushed open the door!"]

When the room had been cleared and swept of snow; when a roaring fire
had been built on the hearth, and a little warm tea poured gently
down her throat, she came gradually back again to life, and in a
short time was able to be lifted into a sitting position, and then
she recognized her son and Archie.

"Oh, mother, mother!" cried Bob, the tears streaming over his
sun-browned face, "the Maker'll never forgive me for all the ill I've
done ye."

"Hush!  Bobbie, hush!  What, lad, the Maker no' forgive ye!  Eh, ye
little know the grip o' His goodness!  But you're here, you're
innocent.  Thank Him for that."

"Ye'll soon get better, mother, and I'll be so good.  The Squire is
to give me work too."

"It's o'er late for me," she said.  "I'd like to live to see it, but
His will be done."

Archie rode home the giant hunter, but in two hours he was once more
mounted on Scallowa, and feathering back through the snow towards the
little cottage.  The moon had risen now, and the night was starry and
fine.  He tied Scallowa up in the peat shed, and went in unannounced.

He found Bob Cooper sitting before the dying embers of the fire, with
his face buried in his hands, and rocking himself to and fro.

"She--just blessed me and wore away."

That was all he said or could say.  And what words of comfort could
Archie speak?  None.  He sat silently beside him all that livelong
night, only getting up now and then to replenish the fire.  But the
poacher scarcely ever changed his position, only now and then he
stretched out one of his great hands and patted Archie's knee as one
would pet a dog.

A week passed away, and the widow was laid to rest beneath the frozen
ground in the little churchyard by the banks of the river.  Archie
went slowly back with Bob towards the cottage.  On their way thither,
the poacher--poacher now no more though--entered a plantation, and
with his hunting-knife cut and fashioned a rough ash stick.

"We'll say good-bye here, Master Archie."

"What!  You are not going back with me to Burley Old Farm?"

Bob took a small parcel from his pocket, and opening it exposed the
contents.

"Do you know them, Master Archie?"

"Yes, your poor mother's glasses."

"Ay, lad, and as long as I live I'll keep them.  And till my dying
day, Archie, I'll think on you, and your kindness to poor poacher
Bob.  No, I'm not goin' back to Burley, and I'm not going to the
cottage again.  I'm going away.  Where?  I couldn't say.  Here,
quick, shake hands, friend.  Let it be over.  Good-bye."

"Good-bye."

And away went Bob.  He stopped when a little way off, and turned as
if he had forgotten something.

"Archie!" he cried.

"Yes, Bob."

"Take care of my mother's cat."

Next minute he leapt a fence, and disappeared in the pine wood.