V.

_BOB'S STORY: WILD LIFE AT THE DIGGINGS._

"Well, it all came about like this, Archie: 'England,' I said to
myself, says I, 'ain't no place for a poor man.'  Your gentry people,
most o' them anyhow, are just like dogs in the manger.  The dog
couldn't eat the straw, but he wouldn't let the poor hungry cow have
a bite.  Your landed proprietors are just the same; they got their
land as the dog got his manger.  They took it, and though they can't
live on it all, they won't let anybody else do it."

"You're rather hard on the gentry, Bob."

"Well, maybe, Archie; but they ain't many o' them like Squire
Broadbent.  Never mind, there didn't seem to be room for me in
England, and I couldn't help noticing that all the best people, and
the freest, and kindest, were men like your Uncle Ramsay, who had
been away abroad, and had gotten all their dirty little meannesses
squeezed out of them.  So when I left you, after cutting that bit o'
stick, I made tracks for London.  I hadn't much money, so I tramped
all the way to York, and then took train.  When I got to London, why
I felt worse off than ever.  Not a soul to speak to; not a face I
knew; even the bobbies looking sour when I asked them a civil
question; and starvation staring me in the face."

"Starvation, Bob?"

"Ay, Archie, and money in my pocket.  Plenty o' shilling dinners;
but, lo! what was one, London shilling dinner to the like o' me?
Why, I could have bolted three!  Then I thought of Harry here, and
made tracks for Whitechapel.  I found the youngster--I'd known him at
Burley--and he was glad to see me again.  His granny was dead, or
somebody; anyhow, he was all alone in the world.  But he made me
welcome--downright happy and welcome.  I'll tell you what it is,
Archie lad, Harry is a little gentleman, Cockney here or Cockney
there; and deep down below that white, thin face o' his, which three
years and over of Australian sunshine hasn't made much browner, Harry
carries a heart, look, see! that wouldn't disgrace an English Squire."

"Bravo, Bob!  I like to hear you speak in that way about our friend."

"Well, that night I said to Harry, 'Isn't it hard, Harry,' I says,
'that in this free and enlightened land a man is put into gaol if he
snares a rabbit?'

"'Free and enlightened fiddlestick!' that was Harry's words.  'I tell
ye what it is, Bob,' says he, 'this country is played out.  But I
knows where there are lots o' rabbits for the catching.'

"'Where's that?' I says.

"'Australia O!' says Harry.

"'Harry,' says I, 'let us pool up, and set sail for the land of
rabbits--for Australia O!'

"'Right you are,' says Harry; and we pooled up on the spot; and from
that day we haven't had more'n one purse between the two of us, have
we, Harry?"

"Only one," said Harry; "and one's enough between such old, old
chums."

"He may well say old, old chums, Archie; he may well put the two olds
to it; for it isn't so much the time we've been together, it's what
we've come through together; and shoulder to shoulder has always been
our motto.  We've shared our bed, we've shared our blanket, our
damper and our water also, when there wasn't much between the two of
us.

"We got helped out by the emigration folks, and we've paid them
since, and a bit of interest thrown in for luck like; but when we
stood together in Port Jackson for the first time, the contents of
our purse wouldn't have kept us living long, I can assure you."

"'Cities aren't for the like of us, Harry,'" says I.

"'Not now,'" says Harry.

"So we joined a gang going west.  There was a rush away to some place
where somebody had found gold, and Harry and I thought we might do as
well as any o' them.

"Ay, Archie, that was a rush.  'Tinklers, tailors, sodjers, sailors.'
I declare we thought ourselves the best o' the whole gang, and I
think so still.

"We were lucky enough to meet an old digger, and he told us just
exactly what to take and what to leave.  One thing we _did_ take was
steamboat and train, as far as they would go, and this helped us to
leave the mob a bit in the rear.

"Well, we got high up country at long last----"

"Hold!" cried Harry.  "He's missing the best of it.  Is that fair,
Johnnie?"

"No, it isn't fair."

"Why, Johnnie, we hadn't got fifty miles beyond civilization when,
what with the heat and the rough food and bad water, Johnnie, my
London legs and my London heart failed me, and down I must lie.  We
were near a bit of a cockatoo farmer's shanty."

"Does it pay to breed cockatoos?" said Archie innocently.

"Don't be the death o' me, Johnnie.  A cockatoo farmer is just a
crofter.  Well, in there Bob helped me, and I could go no farther.
How long was I ill, Bob?"

"The best part o' two months, Harry."

"Ay, Johnnie, and all that time Bob there helped the farmer--dug for
him, trenched and fenced, and all for my sake, and to keep the life
in my Cockney skin."

"Well, Harry," said Bob, "you proved your worth after we got up.  You
hardened down fine after that fever."

Harry turned towards Archie.

"You mustn't believe all Bob says, Johnnie, when he speaks about me.
Bob is a good-natured, silly sort of a chap; and though he has a
beard now, he ain't got more 'n 'alf the lime-juice squeezed out of
him yet."

"Never mind, Bob," said Archie, "even limes and lemons should not be
squeezed dry.  You and I are country lads, and we would rather retain
a shade of greenness than otherwise; but go on, Bob."

"Well, now," continued Bob, "I don't know that Harry's fever didn't
do us both good in the long run; for when we started at last for the
interior, we met a good lot of the rush coming back.  There was no
fear of losing the tracks.  That was one good thing that came o'
Harry's fever.  Another was, that it kind o' tightened his
constitution.  La! he could come through anything after that--get wet
to the skin and dry again; lie out under a tree or under the dews o'
heaven, and never complain of stiffness; and eat corn beef and damper
as much as you'd like to put before him; and he never seemed to tire.
As for me, you know, Archie, I'm an old bush bird.  I was brought up
in the woods and wilds; and, faith, I'm never so much at home as I am
in the forests.  Not but what we found the march inland wearisome
enough.  Worst of it was, we had no horses, and we had to do a lot of
what you might call good honest begging; but if the squatters did
give us food going up, we were willing to work for it."

"If they'd let us, Bob."

"Which they didn't.  Hospitality and religion go hand in hand with
the squatter.  When I and Harry here set out on that terribly long
march, I confess to both of ye now I didn't feel at all certain as to
how anything at all would turn out.  I was just as bad as the young
bear when its mother put it down and told it to walk.  The bear said,
'All right, mother; but how is it done?'  And as the mother only
answered by a grunt, the young bear had to do the best it could; and
so did we.

"'How is it going to end?' I often said to Harry.

"'We can't lose anything, Bob,' Harry would say, laughing, 'except
our lives, and they ain't worth much to anybody but ourselves; so I'm
thinkin' we're safe.'"

Here Bob paused a moment to stir his tea, and look thoughtfully into
the cup, as if there might be some kind of inspiration to be had from
that.

He laughed lightly as he proceeded:

"I'm a bad hand at a yarn; better wi' the gun and the 'girn,' Harry.
But I'm laughing now because I remember what droll notions I had
about what the Bush, as they call it, would be like when we got
there."

"But, Johnnie," Harry put in, "the curious thing is, that we never
did get there, according to the settlers."

"No?"

"No; because they would always say to us, 'You're going Bush way,
aren't ye, boys?'  And we would answer, 'Why, ain't we there now?'
And they would laugh."

"That's true," said Bob.  "The country never seemed to be Bush enough
for anybody.  Soon's they settled down in a place the Bush'd be
farther west."

"Then the Bush, when one is going west," said Archie, "must be like
to-morrow, always one day ahead."

"That's it; and always keeping one day ahead.  But it was Bush enough
for us almost anywhere.  And though I feel ashamed like to own it
now, there was more than once that I wished I hadn't gone there at
all.  But I had taken the jump, you see, and there was no going back.
Well, I used to think at first that the heat would kill us, but it
didn't.  Then I made sure the want of water would.  That didn't
either, because, one way or another, we always came across some.  But
I'll tell you what nearly killed us, and that was the lonesomeness of
those forests.  Talk of trees!  La!  Archie, you'd think of Jack and
the beanstalk if you saw some we saw.  And why didn't the birds sing
sometimes?  But no, only the constant bicker, bicker of something in
the grass.  There were sounds though that did alarm us.  We know now
that they were made by birds and harmless beasts, but we were all in
the dark then.

"Often and often, when we were just dropping, and thought it would be
a comfort to lie down and die, we would come out of a forest all at
once, and feel in a kind of heaven because we saw smoke, or maybe
heard the bleating o' sheep.  Heaven?  Indeed, Archie, it seemed to
be; for we had many a kindly welcome from the roughest-looking chaps
you could possibly imagine.  And the luxury of bathing our poor feet,
with the certainty of a pair of dry, clean socks in the mornin', made
us as happy as a couple of kings.  A lump of salt junk, a dab of
damper, and a bed in a corner made us feel so jolly we could hardly
go to sleep for laughing.

"But the poor beggars we met, how they did carry on to be sure about
their bad luck, and about being sold, and this, that, and t'other.
Ay, and they didn't all go back.  We saw dead bodies under trees that
nobody had stopped to bury; and it was sad enough to notice that a
good many of these were women, and such pinched and ragged corpses!
It isn't nice to think back about it.

"Had anybody found gold in this rush?  Yes, a few got good working
claims, but most of the others stopped till they couldn't stop any
longer, and had to get away east again, crawling, and cursing their
fate and folly.

"But I'll tell you, Archie, what ruined most o' them.  Just drink.
It is funny that drink will find its way farther into the bush at
times than bread will.

"Well, coming in at the tail o' the day, like, as Harry and I did, we
could spot how matters stood at a glance, and we determined to keep
clear of bush hotels.  Ah! they call them all hotels.  Well, I'm a
rough un, Archie, but the scenes I've witnessed in some of those
drinking houffs has turned my stomach.  Maudlin, drunken miners,
singing, and blethering, and boasting; fighting and rioting worse
than poachers, Archie, and among them--heaven help us!--poor women
folks that would melt your heart to look on.

"'Can we settle down here a bit?' I said to Harry, when we got to the
diggings.

"'We'll try our little best, old chum,' was Harry's reply.

"And we did try.  It was hard even to live at first.  The food, such
as it was in the new stores, was at famine price, and there was not
much to be got from the rivers and woods.  But after a few months
things mended; our station grew into a kind o' working town.  We had
even a graveyard, and all the worst of us got weeded out, and found a
place there.

"Harry and I got a claim after no end of prospecting that we weren't
up to.  We bought our claim, and bought it cheap; and the chap we got
it from died in a week.  Drink?  Ay, Archie, drink.  I'll never
forget, and Harry I don't think will, the last time we saw him.  We
had left him in a neighbour's hut down the gully dying to all
appearance, too weak hardly to speak.  We bade him 'good-bye' for the
last time as we thought, and were just sitting and talking like in
our slab-hut before turning in, and late it must have been, when the
door opened, and in came Glutz, that was his name.  La! what a sight!
His face looked like the face of a skeleton with some parchment drawn
tight over it, his hollow eyes glittered like wildfire, his lips were
dry and drawn, his voice husky.

"He pointed at us with his shining fingers, and uttered a low cry
like some beast in pain; then, in a horrid whisper, he got out these
words:

"'Give me drink, drink, I'm burning.'

"I've seen many a sight, but never such a one as that, Archie.  We
carried him back.  Yes, we did let him have a mouthful.  What
mattered it.  Next day he was in a shallow grave.  I suppose the
dingoes had him.  They had most of those that died.

"Well, by-and-by things got better with Harry and me; our claim began
to yield, we got dust and nuggets.  We said nothing to anybody.  We
built a better sort of shanty, and laid out a morsel of garden, we
fished and hunted, and soon learned to live better than we'd done
before, and as we were making a bit of money we were as happy as
sandboys.

"No, we didn't keep away from the hotel--they soon got one up--it
wouldn't have done not to be free and easy.  But we knew exactly what
to do when we did go there.  We could spin our bits o' yarns, and
smoke our pipes, without losing our heads.  Sometimes shindies got up
though, and revolvers were used freely enough, but as a rule it was
pretty quiet."

"Only once, when that Little fellow told you to 'bail up.'"

"What was that, Harry?" asked Archie.

"Nothing much," said Bob shyly.

"He caught him short round the waist, Johnnie, and smashed everything
on the counter with him, then flung him straight and clear through
the doorway.  When he had finished he quietly asked what was to pay,
and Bob was a favourite after that.  I reckon no one ever thought of
challenging him again."

"Where did you keep your gold?"

"We hid it in the earth in the tent.  There was a black fellow came
to look after us every day.  We kept him well in his place, for we
never could trust him; and it was a good thing we did, as I'm going
to tell you.

"We had been, maybe, a year and a half in the gully, and had got
together a gay bit o' swag, when our claim gave out all at once as 't
were--some shift o' the ground or lode.  Had we had machinery we
might have made a round fortune, but there was no use crying about
it.  We quietly determined to make tracks.  We had sent some away to
Brisbane already--that we knew was safe, but we had a good bit more
to take about us.  However, we wouldn't have to walk all the way
back, for though the place was half-deserted, there were horses to be
had, and farther along we'd manage to get drags.

"Two of the worst hats about the place were a man called Vance, and a
kind of broken-down surgeon of the name of Williams.  They lived by
their wits, and the wonder is they hadn't been hanged long ago.

"It was about three nights before we started, and we were coming home
up the gully.  The moon was shining as bright as ever I'd seen it.
The dew was falling too, and we weren't sorry when we got inside.
Our tame dingo came to meet us.  He had been a pup that we found in
the bush and brought up by hand, and a more faithful fellow never
lived.  We lit our fat-lamp and sat down to talk, and a good hour, or
maybe more, went by.  Then we lay down, for there was lots to be done
in the morning.

"There was a little hole in the hut at one end where Wango, as we
called the wild dog, could crawl through; and just as we were dozing
off I heard a slight noise, and opened my eyes enough to see poor
Wango creeping out.  We felt sure he wouldn't go far, and would rush
in and alarm us if there were the slightest danger.  So in a minute
more I was sleeping as soundly as only a miner can sleep, Archie.
How long I may have slept, or how late or early it was, I couldn't
say, but I awoke all at once with a start.  There was a man in the
hut.  Next minute a shot was fired.  I fell back, and don't remember
any more.  Harry there will tell you the rest."

"It was the shot that wakened me, Archie, but I felt stupid.  I
groped round for my revolver, and couldn't find it.  Then, Johnnie, I
just let them have it Tom Sayers's fashion--like I did you in the
wood, if you remember."

"There were two of them?"

"Aye, Vance and the doctor.  I could see their faces by the light of
their firing.  They didn't aim well the first time, Johnnie, so I
settled them.  I threw the doctor over my head.  His nut must have
come against something hard, because it stilled him.  I got the door
opened and had my other man out.  Ha! ha!  It strikes me, Johnnie,
that I must have wanted some exercise, for I never punished a bloke
before as I punished that Vance.  He had no more strength in him than
a bandicoot by the time I was quite done with him, and looked as limp
all over and just as lively as 'alf a pound of London tripe.

"I just went to the bluff-top after that, and coo-eed for help, and
three or four right good friends were with us in as many minutes,
Johnnie.

"We thought Bob was dead, but he soon spoke up and told us he wasn't,
and didn't mean to die.

"Our chums would have lynched the ruffians that night.  The black
fellow was foremost among those that wanted to.  But I didn't like
that, no more did Bob.  They were put in a tent, tied hand and foot,
and our black fellow made sentry over them.  Next day they were all
gone.  Then we knew it was a put-up job.  Poor old Wango was found
with his throat cut.  The black fellow had enticed him out and taken
him off, then the others had gone for us."

"But our swag was safe," said Bob, "though I lay ill for months
after.  And now it was Harry's turn to nurse; and I can tell you,
Archie, that my dear old dead-and-gone mother couldn't have been
kinder to me than he was.  A whole party of us took the road back
east, and many is the pleasant evening we spent around our camp-fire.

[Illustration: "A whole party of us took the road back east, and many
is the pleasant evening we spent around our camp fire."]

"We got safe to Brisbane, and we got safe here; but somehow we're a
kind o' sick of mining."

"Ever hear more of your assailants?" asked Archie.

"What, the chaps who tried to bail us up?  Yes.  We did hear they'd
taken to bushranging, and are likely to come to grief at that."

"Well, Bob Cooper, I think you've told your story pretty tidily, with
Harry's assistance; and I don't wonder now that you've only got one
purse between you."

"Ah!" said Bob, "it would take weeks to tell you one half of our
adventures.  We may tell you some more when we're all together in the
Bush doing a bit of farming."

"All together?"

"To be sure!  D'ye reckon we'll leave you here, now we've found you?
We'll have one purse between three."

"Indeed, Bob, we will not.  If I go to the Bush--and now I've half a
mind to--I'll work like a New Hollander."

"Bravo!  You're a chip o' the old block.  Well, we can arrange that.
We'll hire you.  Will that do, my proud young son of a proud old
sire?"

"Yes; you can hire me."

"Well, we'll pay so much for your hands, and so much for your head
and brains."

Archie laughed.

"And," continued Bob, "I'm sure that Sarah will do the very best for
the three of us."

"Sarah!  Why, what do you mean, Bob?"

"Only this, lad: Sarah has promised to become my little wife."

The girl had just entered.

"Haven't you, Sarah?"

"Hain't I what?"

"Promised to marry me."

"Well, Mister Archie Broadbent, now I comes to think on't, I believes
I 'ave.  You know, mister, you wouldn't never 'ave married me."

"No, Sarah."

"Well, and I'm perfectly sick o' toilin' up and down these stairs.
That's 'ow it is, sir."

"Well, Sarah," said Archie, "bring us some more nice tea, and I'll
forgive you for this once, but you mustn't do it any more."

It was late ere Bob and Harry went away.  Archie lay back at once,
and when, a few minutes after, the ex-policeman's wife came in to see
how he was, she found him sound and fast.

Archie was back again at Burley Old Farm, that is why he smiled in
his dreams.

"So I'm going to be a hired man in the bush," he said to himself next
morning.  "That's a turn in the kaleidoscope of fortune."

However, as the reader will see, it did not quite come to this with
Archie Broadbent.