I.

"_IN THIS NEW LAND OF OURS._"

There was something in the glorious lonesomeness of Bush-life that
accorded most completely with Archie's notions of true happiness and
independence.  His life now, and the lives of all the three, would be
simply what they chose to make them.  To use the figurative language
of the New Testament, they had "taken hold of the plough," and they
certainly had no intention of "looking back."

Archie felt (this too is figurative) as the mariner may be supposed
to feel just leaving his native shore to sail away over the broad,
the boundless ocean to far-off lands.  His hand is on the tiller; the
shore is receding; his eye is aloft, where the sails are bellying out
before the wind.  There is hardly a sound, save the creaking of the
blocks, or rattle of the rudder chains, the joyous ripple of the
water, and the screaming of the sea-birds, that seem, to sing their
farewells.  Away ahead is the blue horizon and the heaving sea, but
he has faith in his good barque, and faith in his own skill and
judgment, and for the time being he is a Viking; he is "monarch of
all he surveys."

"Monarch of all he surveys?"  Yes; these words are borrowed from the
poem on Robinson Crusoe, you remember; that stirring story that so
appeals to the heart of every genuine boy.

There was something of the Robinson Crusoe element in Archie's
present mode of living, for he and his friends had to rough it in the
same delightfully primitive fashion.  They had to know and to
practise a little of almost every trade under the sun; and while life
to the boy--he was really little more--was very real and very
earnest, it felt all the time like playing at being a man.

But how am I to account for the happiness--nay, even joyfulness--that
appeared to be infused in the young man's very blood and soul?  Nay,
not appeared to be only, but that actually was--a joyfulness whose
effects could at times be actually felt in his very frame and muscle
like a proud thrill, that made his steps and tread elastic, and
caused him to gaily sing to himself as he went about at his work.
May I try to explain this by a little homely experiment, which you
yourself may also perform?  See, here then I have a small disc of
zinc, no larger than a coat button, and I have also a shilling-piece.
I place the former on my tongue, and the latter between my lower lip
and gum, and lo! the moment I permit the two metallic edges to touch
I feel a tingling thrill, and if my eyes be shut I perceive a flash
as well.  It is electricity pissing through the bodily medium--my
tongue.  The one coin becomes _en rapport_, so to speak, with the
other.  So in like manner was Archie's soul within him _en rapport_
with all the light, the life, the love he saw around him, his body
being but the wholesome, healthy, solid medium.

_En rapport_ with the light.  Why, by day this was everywhere--in the
sky during its mid-day blue brightness; in the clouds so gorgeously
painted that lay over the hills at early morning, or over the wooded
horizon near eventide.  _En rapport_ with the light dancing and
shimmering in the pool down yonder; playing among the wild flowers
that grew everywhere in wanton luxuriance; flickering through the
tree-tops, despite the trailing creepers; gleaming through the tender
greens of fern fronds in cool places; sporting with the strange
fantastic, but brightly-coloured orchids; turning greys to white, and
browns to bronze; warming, wooing, beautifying all things--the light,
the lovely light.  _En rapport_ with the life.  Ay, there it was.
Where was it not?  In the air, where myriads of insects dance and
buzz and sing and poise hawk-like above flowers, as if inhaling their
sweetness, or dart hither and thither in their zigzag course, and
almost with the speed of lightning; where monster beetles go droning
lazily round, as if uncertain where to alight; where moths, like
painted fans, hover in the sunshine, or fold their wings and go to
sleep on flower-tops.  In the forests, where birds, like animated
blossoms, living chips of dazzling colours, hop from boughs, climb
stems, run along silvery bark on trees, hopping, jumping, tapping,
talking, chattering, screaming, with bills that move and throats that
heave even when their voices cannot be heard in the feathered babel.
Life on the ground, where thousands of busy beetles creep, or play
hide-and-seek among the stems of tall grass, and where ants
innumerable go in search of what they somehow never seem to find.
Life on the water slowly sailing round, or in and out among the
reeds, in the form of bonnie velvet ducks and pretty spangled teal.
Life in the water, where shoals of fish dart hither and thither, or
rest for a moment in shallows to bask in the sun, their bodies all
a-quiver with enjoyment.  Life in the sky itself, high up.  Behold
that splendid flock of wonga-wonga pigeons, with bronzen wings, that
seem to shake the sunshine off them in showers of silver and gold,
or, lower down, that mob of snowy-breasted cockatoos, going somewhere
to do something, no doubt, and making a dreadful din about it, but
quite a sight, if only from the glints of lily and rose that appear
in the white of their outstretched wings and tails.  Life everywhere.

_En rapport_ with all the love around him.  Yes, for it is spring
here, though the autumn tints are on the trees in groves and woods at
Burley.  Deep down in the forest yonder, if you could penetrate
without your clothes being torn from your back, you might listen to
the soft murmur of the doves that stand by their nests in the green
gloom of fig trees; you would linger long to note the love passages
taking place among the cosy wee, bright, and bonnie parrakeets; you
would observe the hawk flying silently, sullenly, home to his castle
in the inaccessible heights of the gum trees, but you would go
quickly past the forest dens of lively cockatoos.  For everywhere it
is spring with birds and beasts.  They have dressed in their gayest;
they have assumed their fondest notes and cries; they live and
breathe and buzz in an atmosphere of happiness and love.

Well, it was spring with Nature, and it was spring in Archie's heart.

Work was a pleasure to him.

That last sentence really deserves a line to itself.  Without the
ghost of an intention to moralise, I must be permitted to say, that
the youth who finds an undoubted pleasure in working is sure to get
on in Australia.  There is that in the clear, pure, dry air of the
back Bush which renders inactivity an impossibility to anyone except
ne'er-do-wells and born idiots.  This is putting it strongly, but it
is also putting it truthfully.

Archie felt he had done with Sydney, for a time at all events, when
he left.  He was not sorry to shake the dust of the city from his
half-wellingtons as he embarked on the _Canny Scotia_, bound for
Brisbane.

If the Winslows had not been among the passengers he certainly would
have given vent to a sigh or two.

All for the sake of sweet little Etheldene?  Yes, for her sake.  Was
she not going to be Rupert's wife, and his own second sister?  Oh, he
had it all nicely arranged, all cut and dry, I can assure you!

Here is a funny thing, but it is also a fact.  The very day that the
_Canny Scotia_ was to sail, Archie took Harry with him, and the two
started through the city, and bore up for the shop of Mr. Glorie.

They entered.  It was like entering a gloomy vault.  Nothing was
altered.  There stood the rows on rows of dusty bottles, with their
dingy gilt labels; the dusty mahogany drawers; the morsel of
railinged desk with its curtain of dirty red; there were the murky
windows with their bottles of crusted yellows and reds; and up there
the identical spider still working away at his dismal web, still
living in hopes apparently of some day being able to catch a fly.

The melancholy-looking new apprentice, who had doubtless paid the new
premium, a long lantern-jawed lad with great eyes in hollow sockets,
and a blue-grey face, stood looking at the pair of them.

"Where is your master, Mr.----?"

"Mr. Myers, sir.  Myers is my name."

"Where is Mr. Glorie, Mr. Myers?"

"D' ye wish to see 'm, sir?"

"Don't it seem like it?" cried Harry, who for the life of him "could
not help putting his oar in."

"Master's at the back, among--the soap."

He droned out the last words in such a lugubrious tone that Archie
felt sorry for him.

Just then, thinking perhaps he scented a customer, Mr. Glorie himself
entered, all apron from the jaws to the knees.

"Ah!  Mr. Glorie," cried Archie.  "I really couldn't leave Sydney
without saying ta-ta, and expressing iny sorrow for breaking----"

"Your indenture, young sir?"

"No; I'm glad I broke that.  I mean the oil-jar.  Here is a sovereign
towards it, and I hope there's no bad feeling."

"Oh, no, not in the least, and thank you, sir, kindly!"

"Well, good-bye.  Good-bye, Mr. Myers.  If ever I return from the
Bush I'll come back and see you."

And away they went, and away went Archie's feeling; of gloom as soon
as he got to the sunny side of the street.

"I say," said Harry, "that's a lively coon behind the counter.  Looks
to me like a love-sick bandicoot, or a consumptive kangaroo.  But
don't you know there is such a thing as being too honest?  Now that
old death-and-glory chap robbed you, and had it been me, and I'd
called again, it would have been to kick him.  But you're still the
old Johnnie."