When the morning broke pale and golden over the eastern hills, and
the laughing jackasses came round to smile terribly loud and terribly
chaffingly at the white men's preparation for their simple breakfast,
Craig moved about without a single trace of his last night's sorrow.
He was busy looking after the horses when Etheldene came bounding
towards him with both hands extended, so frank and free and beautiful
that as he took hold of them he could not help saying:

"You look as fresh as a fern this morning, Baby."

"Not so green, Craig.  Say 'Not so green.'"

"No, not so green.  But really to look at you brings a great big wave
of joy surging all over my heart.  But to descend from romance to
common-sense.  I hope you are hungry?  I have just been seeing to
your horse.  Where do you think I found him?"

"I couldn't guess."

"Why in the water down yonder.  Lying down and wallowing."

"The naughty horse!  Ah, here come the others!  Good morning all."

"We have been bathing," said Archie.  "Oh, how delicious!"

"Yes," said Harry; "Johnnie and I were bathing down under the trees,
and it really was a treat to see how quickly he came to bank when I
told him there was an alligator taking stock."

"We scared the ducks though.  Pity we didn't bring our guns and bag a
few."

"I believe we'll have a right good breakfast at Findlayson's," said
Craig; "so I propose we now have a mouthful of something and start."

The gloom of that deep forest became irksome at last; though some of
its trees were wondrous to behold in their stately straightness and
immensity of size, the trunks of others were bent and crooked into
such weird forms of contortion, that they positively looked uncanny.

Referring to these, Archie remarked to Craig, who was riding by his
side:

"Are they not grotesquely beautiful?"

Craig laughed lightly.

"Their grotesqueness is apparent anyhow," he replied.  "But would you
believe it, in this very forest I was a week mad?"

"Mad!"

"Yes; worse than mad--delirious.  Oh, I did not run about, I was too
feeble! but a black woman or girl found me, and built a kind of bark
gunja over me, for it rained part of the time and dripped the rest.
And those trees with their bent and gnarled stems walked about me,
and gibbered and laughed, and pointed crooked fingers at me.  I can
afford to smile at it now but it was very dreadful then; and the
worst of it was I had brought it all on myself."

Archie was silent.

"You know in what way?" added Craig.

"I have been told," Archie said, simply and sadly.

"For weeks, Mr. Broadbent, after I was able to walk, I remained among
the blacks doing nothing, just wandering aimlessly from place to
place; but the woods and the trees looked no longer weird and awful
to me then, for I was in my right mind.  It was spring--nay, but
early summer--and I could feel and drink in all the gorgeous beauty
of foliage, of tree flowers and wild flowers, nodding palms and
feathery ferns; but, oh!  I left and went south again; I met once
more the white man, and forgot all the religion of Nature in which my
soul had for a time been steeped.  So that is all a kind of
confession.  I feel the better for having made it.  We are all poor,
weak mortals at the best; only I made a resolve last night."

"You did?"

"Yes; and I am going to keep it.  I am going to have help."

"Help!"

"Yes, from Him who made those stately giants of the forest and
changed their stems to silvery white.  He can change all things."

"Amen!" said Archie solemnly.