IX.

_THE WHOLE YARD WAS ABLAZE AND BURNING FIERCELY._

One year is but a brief span in the history of a family, yet it may
bring many changes.  It did to Burley Old Farm, and some of them were
sad enough, though some were glad.  A glad change took place for
instance in the early spring, after Bob's departure; for Rupert
appeared to wax stronger and stronger with the lengthening days; and
when Uncle Ramsay, in a letter received one morning, announced his
intention of coming from London, and making quite a long stay at
Burley, Rupert declared his intention of mounting Scallowa, and
riding over to the station to meet him.  And the boy was as good as
his word.  In order that they might be both cavaliers together, Uncle
Ramsay hired a horse at D----, and the two rode joyfully home side by
side.

His mother did not like to see that carmine flush on Rupert's cheeks,
however, nor the extra dark sparkle in his eyes when he entered the
parlour to announce his uncle's arrival, but she said nothing.

Uncle Ramsay Broadbent was a brother of the Squire, and, though
considerably older, a good deal like him in all his ways.  There was
the same dash and go in him, and the same smiling front, unlikely to
be dismayed by any amount of misfortune.

"There are a deal of ups and downs in the ocean of life," Archie
heard him say one day; "we're on the top of a big wave one hour, and
in the trough of the sea next, so we must take things as they come."

Yes, this uncle was a seafarer; the skipper of a sturdy merchantman
that he had sailed in for ten long years.  He did not care to be
called captain by anyone.  He was a master mariner, and had an
opinion, which he often expressed, that plain "Mr." was a gentleman's
prefix.

"I shan't go back to sea again," he said next morning at breakfast.

"Fact is, brother, my owners think I'm getting too old.  And maybe
they're right.  I've had a fair innings, and it is only fair to give
the young ones a chance."

Uncle Ramsay seemed to give new life and soul to the old place.  He
settled completely down to the Burley style of life long before the
summer was half over.  He joined the servants in the fields, and
worked with them as did the Squire, Walton, and Archie.  And though
more merriment went on in consequence, there was nevertheless more
work done.  He took an interest in all the boys' "fads," spent hours
with them in their workshop, and made one in every game that was
played on the grass.  He was dreadfully awkward at cricket and tennis
however; for such games as these are but little practised by sailors.
Only he was right willing to learn.

There was a youthfulness and breeziness about Uncle Ramsay's every
action, that few save seafarers possess when hair is turning white.
Of course, the skipper spent many a jolly hour up in the room of the
Castle Tower, and he did not object either to the presence of old
Kate in the chair.  He listened like a boy when she told her weird
stories; and he listened more like a baby than anything else when
Branson played his fiddle.

Then he himself would spin them a yarn, and hold them all enthralled,
especially big-eyed Elsie, with the sterling reality and graphicness
of the narrative.

When Uncle Ramsay spoke you could see the waves in motion, hear the
scream of the birds around the stern, or the wind roaring through the
rigging.  He spoke as he thought; he painted from life.

Well, the arrival of Uncle Ramsay and Rupert's getting strong were
two of the pleasant changes that took place at Burley in this
eventful year.  Alas!  I have to chronicle the sad ones also.  Yet
why sigh?  To use Uncle Ramsay's own words, "You never know what a
ship is made of until stormy seas are around you."

First then came a bad harvest--a terribly bad harvest.  It was not
that the crops themselves were so very light, but the weather was
cold and wet; the grain took long to ripen.  The task of cutting it
down was unfortunately an easy one, but the getting it stored was
almost an impossibility.  At the very time when it was ripe, and
after a single fiercely hot day, a thunder-storm came on, and with it
such hail as the oldest inhabitant in the parish could not remember
having seen equalled.  This resulted in the total loss of far more of
the precious seed, than would have sown all the land of Burley twice
over.

The wet continued.  It rained and rained every day and when it rained
it poured.

The Squire had heard of a Yankee invention for drying wheat under
cover, and rashly set about a rude but most expensive imitation
thereof.  He first mentioned the matter to Uncle Ramsay at the
breakfast-table.  The Squire seemed in excellent spirits that
morning.  He was walking briskly up and down the room rubbing his
hands, as if in deep but pleasant thought, when his brother came
quietly in.

"Hullo! you lazy old sea-dog.  Why you'd lie in your bed till the sun
burned a hole in the blanket.  Now just look at me."

"I'm just looking at you."

"Well, I've been up for hours.  I'm as hungry as a Caithness
Highlander.  And I've got an idea."

"I thought there was something in the wind."

"Guess."

"Guess, indeed!  Goodness forbid I should try.  But I say, brother,"
continued Uncle Ramsay, laughing, "couldn't you manage to fall asleep
somewhere out of doors, like the man in the story, and wake up and
find yourself a king?  My stars, wouldn't we have reforms as long as
your reign lasted!  The breakfast, Mary?  Ah, that's the style!"

"You won't be serious and listen, I suppose, Ramsay."

"Oh, yes; I will."

"Well, the Americans----"

"The Americans again; but go on."

"The Americans, in some parts where I've been, wouldn't lose a straw
in a bad season.  It is all done by means of great fanners and heated
air, you know.  Now, I'm going to show these honest Northumbrian
farmers a thing or two.  I----"

"I say, brother, hadn't you better trust to Providence, and wait for
a fair wind?"

"Now, Ramsay, that's where you and I differ.  You're a slow Moses.  I
want to move ahead a trifle in front of the times.  I've been looking
all over the dictionary of my daily life, and I can't find such a
word as 'wait' in it."

"Let me give you some of this steak, brother."

"My plan of operations, Ramsay, is----"

"Why," said Mrs. Broadbent, "you haven't eaten anything yet!"

"I thought," said Uncle Ramsay, "you were as hungry as a Tipperary
Highlander, or some such animal."

"My plan, Ramsay, is----" &c. &c.

The two "&c. &c.'s" in the last line stand for all the rest of the
honest Squire's speech, which, as his sailor brother said, was as
long as the logline.  But for all his hunger he made but a poor
breakfast, and immediately after he jumped up and hurried away to the
barn-yards.

It was a busy time for the next two weeks at Burley Old Farm, but, to
the Squire's credit be it said, he was pretty successful with his
strange operation of drying wheat independent of the sun.  His ricks
were built, and he was happy--happy as long as he thought nothing
about the expense.  But he did take an hour or two one evening to run
through accounts, as he called it.  Uncle Ramsay was with him.

"Why, brother," said Ramsay, looking very serious now indeed, "you
are terribly down to leeward--awfully out of pocket!"

"Ah! never mind, Ramsay.  One can't keep ahead of the times
now-a-days, you know, without spending a little."

"Spending a little!  Where are your other books?  Mr. Walton and I
will have a look through them to-night, if you don't mind."

"Not a bit, brother, not a bit.  We're going to give a dance
to-morrow night to the servants, so if you like to bother with the
book-work I'll attend to the terpsichorean kick up."

Mr. Walton and Uncle Ramsay had a snack in the office that evening
instead of coming up to supper, and when Mrs. Broadbent looked in to
say good-night she found them both quiet and hard at work.

"I say, Walton," said Uncle Ramsay some time after, "this is serious.
Draw near the fire and let us have a talk."

"It is sad as well as serious," said Walton.

"Had you any idea of it?"

"Not the slightest.  In fact I'm to blame, I think, for not seeing to
the books before.  But the Squire----"

Walton hesitated.

"I know my brother well," said Ramsay.  "As good a fellow as ever
lived, but as headstrong as a nor'-easter.  And now he has been
spending money on machinery to the tune of some ten thousand pounds.
He has been growing crop after crop of wheat as if he lived on the
prairies and the land was new; and he has really been putting as much
down in seed, labour, and fashionable manures as he has taken off."

"Yet," said Walton, "he is no fool."

"No, not he; he is clever, too much so.  But heaven send his pride,
honest though it be, does not result in a fall."

The two sat till long past twelve talking and planning, then they
opened the casement and walked out on to the lawn.  It was a lovely
autumn night.  The broad, round moon was high in the heavens,
fighting its way through a sky of curdling clouds which greatly
detracted from its radiance.

"Look, Walton," said the sailor, "to windward; yonder it is all blue
sky, by-and-by it will be a bright and lovely night."

"By-and-by.  Yes," sighed Walton.

"But see!  What is that down yonder rising white over the trees?
Smoke!  Why, Walton, the barnyards are all on fire!"

Almost at the same moment Branson rushed upon the scene.

"Glad you're up, gentlemen," he gasped.  "Wake the Squire.  The
servants are all astir.  We must save the beasts, come of everything
else what will."

The farm-steading of Burley was built in the usual square formation
round a centre straw-yard, which even in winter was always kept so
well filled that beasts might lie out all night.  To the north were
the stacks, and it was here the fire originated, and unluckily the
wind blew from that direction.  It was by no means high; but fire
makes its own wind, and in less than half an hour the whole yard was
ablaze and burning fiercely, while the byres, stables, and barns had
all caught.  From the very first these latter had been enveloped in
dense rolling clouds of smoke, and sparks as thick as falling
snowflakes, so that to save any of the live stock seemed almost an
impossibility.

With all his mania for machinery, and for improvements of every kind
possible to apply to agriculture, it is indeed a wonder that the
Squire had not established a fire brigade on his farm.  But fire was
an eventuality which he had entirely left out of his reckoning, and
now there was really no means of checking the terrible conflagration.

As soon as the alarm was given every one did what he could to save
the live stock; but the smoke was blinding, maddening, and little
could be done save taking the doors off their hinges.

Who knows what prodigies of valour were performed that night by the
humble cowmen even, in their attempts to drive the oxen and cows out,
and away to a place of safety?  In some instances, when they had
nearly succeeded, the cattle blocked the doorways, or, having got out
to the straw-yard, charged madly back again, and prevented the exit
of their fellows.  Thus several servants ran terrible risks to their
lives.

They were more successful in saving the horses, and this was greatly
owing to Archie's presence of mind.  He had dashed madly into the
stable for his pet Scallowa.  The Shetland pony had never looked more
wild before.  He sniffed the danger, he snorted and reared.  All at
once it occurred to Archie to mount and ride him out.  No sooner had
he got on his back than he came forth like a lamb.  He took him to a
field and let him free, and as he was hurrying back he met little
Peter.

"Come, Peter, come," he cried; "we can save the horses."

The two of them rushed to the stable, and horse after horse was
bridled and mounted by little Peter and ridden out.

But a fearful hitch occurred.  Tell, the Squire's hunter, backed
against the stable door and closed it, thus imprisoning Archie, who
found it impossible to open the door.

The roof had already caught.  The horses were screaming in terror,
and rearing wildly against the walls.

Peter rushed away to seek assistance.  He met Branson, and in a word
or two told him what had happened.

Luckily axes were at hand, and sturdy volunteers speedily smashed the
door in, and poor Archie, more dead than alive, with torn clothes and
bleeding face, was dragged through.

The scene after this must be left to imagination.  But the Squire
reverently and fervently thanked God when the shrieks of those
fire-imprisoned cattle were hushed in death, and nothing was to be
heard save the crackle and roar of the flames.

The fire had lit up the countryside for miles around.  The moonlight
itself was bright, but within a certain radius the blazing farm cast
shadows against it.

Next morning stackyards, barnyards, farm-steading, machinery-house,
and everything pertaining to Burley Old Farm, presented but a
smouldering, blackened heap of ruins.

Squire Broadbent entertained his poor, frightened people to an early
breakfast in the servants' hall, and the most cheerful face there was
that of the Squire.  Here is his little speech:

"My good folks, sit down and eat; and let us be thankful we're all
here, and that no human lives are lost.  My good kinswoman Kate here
will tell you that there never yet was an ill but there might be a
worse.  Let us pray the worse may never come."