In course of a few months Squire Broadbent was as good as his word.
He came out to the new land to give the Australians the benefit of
his genius in the farming way; to teach Young Australia a thing or
two it had not known before; so at least he thought.

With him came Mrs. Broadbent, and even Uncle Ramsay, and the day of
their arrival at Brisbane was surely a red-letter day in the annals
of that thriving and prosperous place.

Strange to say, however, none of the squatters from the Bush, none of
the speculating men, nor anybody else apparently, were very much
inclined to be lectured about their own country, and the right and
wrong way of doing things, by a Squire from the old country, who had
never been here before.  Some of them were even rude enough to laugh
in his face, but the Squire was not offended a bit.  He was on far
too good terms with himself for that, and too sure that he was in the
right in all he said.  He told some of these Bush farmers that if
_they_ did not choose to learn a wrinkle or two from him _he_ was not
the loser, with much more to the same purpose, all of which had about
the same effect on his hearers that rain has on a duck's back.

To use a rather hackneyed phrase, Squire Broadbent had the courage of
his convictions.

He settled quietly down at Burley New Farm, and commenced to study
Bush life in all its bearings.  It soon began to dawn upon him that
Australia was getting to be a great country, that she had a great
future before her, and that _he_--Squire Broadbent--would be
connected with it.  He was in no great hurry to invest, though
eventually he would.  It would be better to wait and watch.  There
was room enough and to spare for all at Archie's house, and that all
included honest Uncle Ramsay of course.  He and Winslow resumed
acquaintance, and in the blunt, straightforward ways of the man even
Squire Broadbent found a deal to admire and even to marvel at.

"He is a clever man," said the Squire to his brother; "a clever man
and a far-seeing.  He gets a wonderful grasp of financial matters in
a moment.  Depend upon it, brother, he is the right metal, and it is
upon solid stones like him that the future greatness of a nation
should be founded."

Uncle Ramsay said he himself did not know much about it.  He knew
more about ships, and was quite content to settle down at Brisbane,
and keep a morsel of a 20-tonner.  That was his ambition.

What a delight it was for Archie to have them all round his
breakfast-table in the green-parlour at Burley New Farm, or seated
out in the verandah all so home-like and happy.

His dear old mummy too, with her innocent womanly ways, delighted
with all she saw, yet half afraid of almost everything--half afraid
the monster gum-trees would fall upon her when out in the forest;
half afraid to put her feet firmly to the ground when walking, but
gathering up her skirts gingerly, and thinking every withered branch
was a snake; half afraid the howling dingoes would come down in force
at night, as wild wolves do on Russian wastes, and kill and eat
everybody; half afraid of the most ordinary good-natured-looking
black fellow; half afraid of even the pet kangaroo when he hopped
round and held up his chin to have his old-fashioned neck stroked;
half afraid--but happy, so happy nevertheless, because she had all
she loved around her.

Gentleman Craig was most deferential and attentive to Mrs. Broadbent,
and she could not help admiring him--indeed, no one could--and quite
approved of Elsie's choice; though, mother-like, she thought the girl
far too young to marry yet, as the song says.

However, they were not to be married yet quite.  There was a year to
elapse, and a busy one it was.  First and foremost, Craig took the
unfortunate Findlayson's farm.  But the old steading was allowed to
go to decay, and some one told me the other day that there is now a
genuine ghost, said to be seen on moonlight nights, wandering round
the ruined pile.  Anyhow, its associations were of far too terrible a
character for Craig to think of building near it.

He chose the site for his house and outbuildings near the creek and
the spot where they had bivouaced before the murder was discovered.
It was near here too that Craig had made his firm resolve to be a
free man--made it and kept it.  The spot was charmingly beautiful
too; and as his district included a large portion of the forest, he
commenced clearing that, but in so scientific and tasteful a manner
that it looked, when finished, like a noble park.

During this year Squire Broadbent also became a squatter.  From
Squire to Squatter may sound to some like a come-down in life; but
really Broadbent did not think so.

He managed to buy out a station immediately adjoining Archie's, and
when he had got fairly established thereon he told his brother Ramsay
that fifteen years had tumbled off his shoulders all in a
lump--fifteen years of care and trouble, fifteen years of struggle to
keep his head above water, and live up to his squiredom.

"I'm more contented now by far and away," he told his wife, "than I
was in the busy, boastful days before the fire at Burley Old Farm;
so, you see, it doesn't take much in this world to make a man happy."

Rupert did not turn squatter, but missionary.  It was a great treat
for him to have Etheldene to ride with him away out into the bush
whenever he heard a tribe had settled down anywhere for a time.
Etheldene knew all their ways, and between the two of them they no
doubt did much good.

It is owing to such earnest men as Rupert that so great a change has
come over the black population, and that so many of them, even as I
write, sit humbly at the feet of Jesus, clothed and in their right
mind.  To quote the words of a recent writer: "The war-paints and
weapons for fights are seen no more, the awful heathen corroborees
have ceased, the females are treated with kindness, and the
lamentable cries, accompanied by bodily injuries, when death
occurred, have given place to Christian sorrow and quiet tears for
their departed friends."

It came to pass one day that Etheldene and Archie, towards the end of
the year, found themselves riding alone, through scrub and over
plain, just as they were that day they were lost.  The conversation
turned round to Rupert's mission.

"What a dear, good, young man your brother is, Archie!" said the girl.

"Do you really love him?"

"As a brother, yes."

"Etheldene, have him for a brother, will you?"

The rich blood mounted to her cheeks and brow.  She cast one
half-shy, half-joyful look at Archie, and simply murmured, "Yes."

It was all over in a moment then.  Etheldene struck her horse lightly
across the crest with the handle of her stock-whip, and next minute
both horses were galloping as if for dear life.

When Archie told Rupert how things had turned out, he only smiled in
his quiet manner.

"It is a queer way of wooing," he said; "but then you were always a
queer fellow, Archie, and Etheldene is a regular Bush baby, as Craig
calls her.  Oh, I knew long ago she loved you!"

At the year's end then both Elsie and Etheldene were married, and
married, too, at the same church in Sydney from which Bob led Sarah,
his blushing bride.  It might not have been quite so wild and daft a
wedding, but it was a very happy one nevertheless.

No one was more free in blessing the wedded couples than old Kate.
Yes, old as she was, she had determined not to be left alone in
England.

We know how Bob spent his honeymoon.  How were the new young folks to
spend theirs?  Oh, it was all arranged beforehand!  And on the very
morning of the double marriage they embarked--Harry and Bob going
with them for a holiday--on board Captain Vesey's pretty yacht, and
sailed away for England.  Etheldene's dream of romance was about to
become a reality; she was not only to visit the land of chivalry, but
with Archie her husband and hero by her side.

The yacht hung off and on the shore all day, as if reluctant to leave
the land; but towards evening a breeze sprang up from the west, the
sails filled, and away she went, dancing and curtseying over the
water like a thing of life.

The sunset was bewitchingly beautiful; the green of the land was
changed to a purple haze, that softened and beautified its every
outline; the cloudless sky was clear and deep; that is, it gave you
the idea you could see so far into and through it.  There was a flush
of saffron along the horizon; above it was of an opal tint, with here
and there a tender shade of crimson--only a suspicion of this colour,
no more; and apparently close at hand, in the east, were long-drawn
cloudlets of richest red and gold.

Etheldene looked up in her husband's face.

"Shall we have such a sky as that to greet our arrival on English
shores?" she said.

Archie drew her closer to his side.

"I'm not quite sure about the sky," he replied, shaking his head and
smiling, "but we'll have a hearty English welcome."

And so they had.