Now if I were writing all this tale from imagination, instead of
sketching the life and struggles of a real live laddie, I should have
ascended into the realms of romance, and made a kind of hero of him
thus: he should have gone straight away to the bank when he received
that £50 from his uncle, and sent it back, and then gone off to the
bush with twopence halfpenny in his pocket, engaged himself to a
squatter as under-man, and worked his way right up to the pinnacle of
fortune.

But Archie had not done that; and between you and me and the
binnacle, not to let it go any further, I think he did an extremely
sensible thing in sticking to the money.

Oh, but plenty of young men who do not have uncles to send them
fifty-pound notes to help them over their first failures, do very
well without such assistance!  So let no intending emigrant be
disheartened.

Again, as to Winslow's wild way of borrowing said £50, and changing
it into £300, that was another "fluke," and a sort of thing that
might never happen again in a hundred years.

Pride did come in again, however, with a jump--with a gay
Northumbrian bound--when Bob and Harry seriously proposed that
Johnnie, as the latter still called him, should put his money in the
pool, and share and share alike with them.

"No, no, no," said the young Squire, "don't rile me; that would be so
obviously unfair to you, that it would be unfair to myself."

When asked to explain this seeming paradox, he added:

"Because it would rob me of my feeling of independence."

So the matter ended.

But through the long-headed kindness and business tact of Winslow,
all three succeeded in getting farms that adjoined, though Archie's
was but a patch compared to the united great farms of his chums, that
stretched to a goodly two thousand acres and more, with land beyond
to take up as pasture.

But then there was stock to buy, and tools, and all kinds of things,
to say nothing of men's and boys' wages to be paid, and arms and
ammunition to help to fill the larder.

At this time the railway did not go sweeping away so far west as it
does now, the colony being very much younger, and considerably
rougher; and the farms lay on the edge of the Darling Downs.

This was a great advantage, as it gave them the run of the markets
without having to pay nearly as much in transit and freight as the
stock was worth.

They had another advantage in their selection--thanks once more to
Winslow--they had Bush still farther to the west of them.  Not
adjacent, to be sure, but near enough to make a shift of stock to
grass lands, that could be had for an old song, as the saying is.

The selection was procured under better conditions than I believe it
is to be had to-day; for the rent was only about ninepence an acre,
and that for twenty years, the whole payable at any time in order to
obtain complete possession.*


* At present agricultural farms may be selected of not more than 1280
acres, and the rent is fixed by the Land Board, not being less than
threepence per acre per annum.  A license is issued to the selector,
who must, within five years, fence in the land or make permanent
improvements of a value equal to the cost of the fence, and must also
live on the selection.  If at the end of that time he can prove that
he has performed the above conditions, he will be entitled to a
transferable lease for fifty years.  The rent for the first ten years
will be the amount as at first fixed, and the rent for every
subsequent period of five years will be determined by the Land Board,
but the greatest increase that can be made at any re-assessment is
fifty per cent.


It must not be imagined that this new home of theirs was a land
flowing with milk and honey, or that they had nothing earthly to do
but till the ground, sow seed, and live happy ever after.  Indeed the
work to be performed was all earthly, and the milk and honey had all
to come.

A deal of the very best land in Australia is covered with woods and
forests, and clearing has to be done.

Bob wished his busy little body of a wife to stay behind in Brisbane
till he had some kind of a decent crib, as he called it, ready to
invite her to.

But Sarah said, "No!  Where you go I go.  Your crib shall be my crib,
Bob, and I shall bake the damper."  This was not very poetical
language, but there was a good deal of sound sense about Sarah, even
if there was but little poetry.

Well, it did seem at first a disheartening kind of wilderness they
had come to, but the site for the homesteads had been previously
selected, and after a night's rest in their rude tents and waggons,
work was commenced.  Right joyfully too.

  "Down with, them!  Down
  With the lords of the forests."


This was the song of our pioneers.  Men shouted and talked, and
laughed and joked, saws rasped and axes rang, and all the while duty
went merrily on.  Birds and beasts, never disturbed before in the
solitude of their homes, except by wandering blacks, crowded
round--only keeping a safe distance away--and wondered whatever the
matter could be.  The musical magpies, or laughing jackasses, said
they would soon settle the business; they would frighten those new
chums out of their wits, and out of the woods.  So they started to do
it.  They laughed in such loud, discordant, daft tones that at times
Archie was obliged to put his fingers in his ears, and guns had to be
fired to stop the row.  So they were not successful.  The cockatoos
tried the same game; they cackled and skraighed like a million mad
hens, and rustled and ruffled their plumage, and flapped their wings
and flew, but all to no purpose--the work went on.

The beautiful lorries, parrakeets, and budgerigars took little notice
of the intruders, but went farther away, deserting half-built nests
to build new ones.  The bonnie little long-tailed opossum peeped down
from his perch on the gums, looking exceedingly wise, and told his
wife that not in all his experience had there been such goings on in
the forest lands, and that something was sure to follow it; his wife
might mark his words for that.  The wongawongas grumbled dreadfully;
but great hawks flew high in the air, swooping round and round
against the sun, as they have a habit of doing, and now and then gave
vent to a shrill cry which was more of exultation than anything else.
"There will be dead bones to pick before long."  That is what the
hawks thought.  Snakes now and then got angrily up, puffed and blew a
bit, but immediately decamped into the denser cover.

The dingoes kept their minds to themselves until night fell, and the
stars came out; the constellation called the Southern Cross spangled
the heaven's dark-blue, then the dingoes lifted up their voices and
wept; and, oh, such weeping!  Whoso has never heard a concert of
Australian wild dogs can have no conception of the noise these
animals are capable of.  Whoso has once heard it, and gone to sleep
towards the end of it, will never afterwards complain of the harmless
musical reunions of our London cats.

But sleep is often impossible.  You have got just to lie in bed and
wonder what in the name of mystery they do it for.  They seem to
quarrel over the key-note, and lose it, and try for it, and get it
again, and again go off into a chorus that would "ding doon"
Tantallan Castle.  And when you do doze off at last, as likely as
not, you will dream of howling winds and hungry wolves till it is
grey daylight in the morning.