It was the last month of winter, when early one morning a gay party
from Burley New Farm set out to visit Findlayson, and spend a week or
two in order to "'liven him up," as Harry expressed it.

Bob was not particularly fond of going much from home--besides,
Winslow and he were planning some extensions--so he stopped on the
Station.  But Harry went, and, as before, when going to the kangaroo
hunt, Gentleman Craig was in the cavalcade, and of course Rupert and
Elsie.

It would have been no very difficult matter to have done the journey
in a single day, only Archie was desirous of letting his brother and
sister have a taste of camping out in the Bush.

They chose the same route as before, and encamped at night in the
self-same place.

The evening too was spent in much the same way, even to singing and
story-telling, and Craig's lullaby to Baby, when she and Elsie had
gone to their tent.

Morning dawned at last on forest and plain, and both Harry and the
brothers were early astir.  It would have been impossible to remain
asleep much after daybreak, owing to the noise of the birds,
including the occasional ear-splitting clatter of the laughing
jackasses.

Besides, towards morning it had been exceedingly cold.  The first
thing that greeted their eyes was a thorough old-fashioned hoar
frost, the like of which Archie had not seen for many a year.
Everything gleamed white almost as coral.  The grass itself was a
sight to see, and the leaves on the trees were edged with lace.  But
up mounted the sun, and all was speedily changed.  Leaves grew
brightly green again, and the hoar frost was turned into glancing,
gleaming, rainbow-coloured drops of dew.

The young men ran merrily away to the pool in the creek, and most
effectually scared the ducks.

The breakfast to-day was a different sort of a meal to the morsel of
stiff damper and corned junk that had been partaken of at last
bivouac.  Elsie made the tea, and Etheldene and she presided.  The
meat pies and patties were excellent, and everyone was in the highest
possible spirits, and joyously merry.

Alas! and alas! this was a breakfast no one who sat down to, and who
lives, is ever likely to forget.

Have you ever, reader, been startled on a bright sunshiny summer's
day by a thunder-peal?  And have you seen the clouds rapidly bank up
after this and obscure the sky, darkness brooding over the windless
landscape, lighted up every moment by the blinding lightning's flash,
and gloom and danger brooding all round, where but a short half-hour
ago the birds carolled in sunlight?  Then will you be able, in some
measure, to understand the terribleness of the situation in which an
hour or two after breakfast the party found themselves, and the awful
suddenness of the shock that for a time quite paralyzed every member
of it.

They had left the dismal depths of the forest, and were out on the
open pasture-land, and nearing Findlayson's house, when Craig and
Archie, riding on in front, came upon the well-known bobtailed
collie, who was the almost constant companion of the squatter.  The
dog was alive, but dying.  There was a terrible spear-gash in his
neck.  Craig dismounted and knelt beside him.  The poor brute knew
him, wagged his inch-long tail, licked the hand that caressed him,
and almost immediately expired.  Craig immediately rode back to the
others.

"Do not be alarmed, ladies," he said.  "But I fear the worst.  There
is no smoke in Findlayson's chimney.  The black fellows have killed
his dog."

Though both girls grew pale, there were no other signs of fear
manifested by them.  If Young Australia could be brave, so could Old
England.

The men consulted hurriedly, and it was agreed that while Branson and
Harry waited with the ladies, Archie and Craig should ride on towards
the house.

Not a sign of life; no, not one.  Signs enough of death though, signs
enough of an awful struggle.  It was all very plain and simple,
though all very, very sad and dreadful.

Here in the courtyard lay several dead natives, festering and
sweltering in the noonday sun.  Here were the boomerangs and spears
that had fallen from their hands as they dropped never to rise again.
Here was the door battered and splintered and beaten in with
tomahawks, and just inside, in the passage, lay the bodies of
Hurricane Bill and poor Findlayson, hacked about almost beyond
recognition.

In the rooms all was confusion, every place had been ransacked.  The
furniture, all new and elegant, smashed and riven; the very piano
that the honest Scot had bought for sake of Elsie had been dissected,
and its keys carried away for ornaments.  In an inner room,
half-dressed, were Findlayson's sister and her little Scotch maid,
their arms broken, as if they had held them up to beseech for mercy
from the monsters who had attacked them.  Their arms were broken, and
their skulls beaten in, their white night-dresses drenched in blood.
There was blood, blood everywhere--in curdled streams, in great
liver-like gouts, and in dark pools on the floor.  In the kitchen
were many more bodies of white men (the shepherds), and of the fiends
in human form with whom they had struggled for their lives.

It was an awful and sickening sight.

No need for Craig or Archie to tell the news when they returned to
the others.  Their very silence and sadness told the terrible tale.

Nothing could be done at present, however, in the way of punishing
the murderers, who by this time must be far away in their mountain
fastnesses.

They must ride back, and at once too, in order to warn the people at
Burley and round about of their great danger.

So the return journey was commenced at once.  On riding through the
forest they had to observe the greatest caution.

Craig was an old Bushman, and knew the ways of the blacks well.  He
trotted on in front.  And whenever in any thicket, where an ambush
might possibly be lurking, he saw no sign of bird or beast, he
dismounted and, revolver in hand, examined the place before he
permitted the others to come on.

They got through the forest and out of the gloom at last, and some
hours afterwards dismounted a long way down the creek to water the
horses and let them browse.  As for themselves, no one thought of
eating.  There was that feeling of weight at every heart one
experiences when first awakening from some dreadful nightmare.

They talked about the massacre, as they sat under the shadow of a gum
tree, almost in whispers; and at the slightest unusual noise the men
grasped their revolvers and listened.

They were just about to resume their journey when the distant sound
of galloping horses fell on their ears.  Their own nags neighed.  All
sprang to their feet, and next moment some eight or nine men rode
into the clearing.

Most of them were known to Craig, so he advanced to meet them.

"Ah!  I see you know the worst," said the leader.

"Yes," said Craig, "we know."

"We've been to your place.  It is all right there with one exception."

"One exception?"

"Yes; it's only the kid--Mr. Cooper's little daughter, you know."

"Is she dead?" cried Archie aghast.

"No, sir; that is, it isn't likely.  Mr. Cooper's black girl left
last night, and took the child."

"Good heavens! our little Diana!  Poor Bob!  He will go raving mad!"

"He is mad, sir, or all but, already; but we've left some fellows to
defend the station, and taken to the trail as you see."

"Craig," said Archie, "we must go, too."

"Well," said the first speaker, "the coast is all clear betwixt here
and Burley.  Two must return there with the ladies.  I advise you to
make your choice, and lose no time."

It was finally arranged that Branson and one of the newcomers should
form the escort; and so Archie, Harry, and Craig bade the girls a
hurried adieu, and speedily rode away after the men.