VI.

"_JOHNNIE'S GOT THE GRIT IN HIM._"

On the day of his fight with young Harry in the wood, Archie returned
home to find both his father and Mr. Walton in the drawing-room alone.

His father caught the lad by the arm.

"Been tumbling again off that pony of yours?"

"No, father, worse.  I'm sure I've done wrong."

He then told them all about the practical joking, and the _finale_.

"Well," said the Squire, "there is only one verdict.  What do you
say, Walton?"

"Serve him right!"

"Oh, I know that," said Archie; "but isn't it lowering our name to
keep such company?"

"It isn't raising our name, nor growing fresh laurels either, for you
to play practical jokes on this poor London lad.  But as to being in
his company, Archie, you may have to be in worse yet.  But listen!  I
want my son to behave as a gentleman, even in low company.  Remember
that boy, and despise no one, whatever be his rank in life.  Now, go
and beg your mother's and sister's forgiveness for having to appear
before them with a black-eye."

"Archie!" his father called after him, as he was leaving the room.

"Yes, dad?"

"How long do you think it will be before you get into another scrape?"

"I couldn't say for certain, father.  I'm sure I don't want to get
into any.  They just seem to come."

"There's no doubt about one thing, Mr. Broadbent," said the tutor
smiling, when Archie had left.

"And that is?"

"He's what everybody says he is, a chip of the old block.
Headstrong, and all that; doesn't look before he leaps."

"Don't _I_, Walton?"

"Squire, I'm not going to flatter you.  You know you don't."

"Well, my worthy secretary," said the Squire, "I'm glad you speak so
plainly.  I can always come to you for advice when----"

"When you want to," said Walton, laughing.  "All right, mind you do.
I'm proud to be your factor, as well as tutor to your boys.  Now what
about that Chillingham bull?  You won't turn him into the west field?"

"Why not?  The field is well fenced.  All our picturesque beasts are
there.  He is only a show animal, and he is really only a baby."

"True, the bull is not much more than a baby, but----"

The baby in question was the gift of a noble friend to Squire
Broadbent; and so beautiful and picturesque did he consider him, that
he would have permitted him to roam about the lawns, if there did not
exist the considerable probability that he would play battledore and
shuttlecock with the visitors, and perhaps toss old Kate herself over
the garden wall.

So he was relegated to the west field.  This really was a park to all
appearance.  A few pet cattle grazed in it, a flock of sheep, and a
little herd of deer.  They all lived amicably together, and sought
shelter under the same spreading trees from the summer's sun.  The
cattle were often changed, so were the sheep, but the deer were as
much fixtures as the trees themselves.

The changing of sheep or cattle meant fine fun for Archie.  He would
be there in all his glory, doing the work that was properly that of
herdsmen and collie dogs.  There really was not a great deal of need
for collies when Archie was there, mounted on his wild Shetland pony,
his darling "Eider Duck" Scallowa; and it was admittedly a fine sight
to see the pair of them--they seemed made for each other--feathering
away across the field, heading and turning the drove.  At such times
he would be armed with a long whip, and occasionally a beast more
rampageous than the rest would separate itself from the herd, and,
with tail erect and head down, dash madly over the grass.  This would
be just the test for Archie's skill that he longed for.  Away he
would go at a glorious gallop; sometimes riding neck and neck with
the runaway and plying the whip, at other times getting round and
well ahead across the beast's bows with shout and yell, but taking
care to manoeuvre so as to steer clear of an ugly rush.

In this field always dwelt one particular sheep.  It had, like the
pony, been a birthday present, and, like the pony, it hailed from the
_Ultima Thule_ of the British North.  If ever there was a demon sheep
in existence, surely this was the identical quadruped.  Tall and
lank, and daft-looking, it possessed almost the speed of a red deer,
and was as full of mischief as ever sheep could be.  The worst of the
beast was, that he led all the other woolly-backs into mischief; and
whether it proposed a stampede round the park, ending with a charge
through the ranks of the deer, or a well-planned attempt at escape
from the field altogether, the other sheep were always willing to
join, and sometimes the deer themselves.

Archie loved that sheep next to the pony, and there were times when
he held a meet of his own.  Mousa, as he called him, would be carted,
after the fashion of the Queen's deer, to a part of the estate, miles
from home; but it was always for home that Mousa headed, though not
in a true line.  No, this wonderful sheep would take to the woods as
often as not, and scamper over the hills and far away, so that Archie
had many a fine run; and the only wonder is that Scallowa and he did
not break their necks.

The young Chillingham bull was as beautiful as a dream--a nightmare
for instance.  He was not very large, but sturdy, active, and strong.
Milk-white, or nearly so, with black muzzle and crimson ears inside,
and, you might say, eyes as well.  Pure white black-tipped horns,
erect almost, and a bit of a mane which added to his picturesqueness
and wild beauty.  His name was Lord Glendale, and his pedigree longer
than the Laird o' Cockpen's.

Now, had his lordship behaved himself, he certainly would have been
an ornament to the society of Westfield.  But he wouldn't or
couldn't.  Baby though he was, he attempted several times to vivisect
his companions; and one day, thinking perhaps that Mousa did not pay
him sufficient respect, his lordship made a bold attempt to throw him
over the moon.  So it was determined that Lord Glendale should be
removed from Westfield.  At one end of the park was a large, strong
fence, and Branson and others came to the conclusion that Glendale
would be best penned, and have a ring put in his nose.

Yes, true; but penning a Chillingham wild baby-bull is not so simple
as penning a letter.  There is more _present_ risk about the former
operation, if not _future_.

"Well, it's got to be done," said Branson.

"Yes," said Archie, who was not far off, "it's got to be done."

"Oh, Master Archie, you can't be in this business!"

"Can't I, Branson?  You'll see."

And Branson did see.  He saw Archie ride into the west field on
Scallowa, both of them looking in splendid form.  Men with poles and
ropes and dogs followed, some of the former appearing not to relish
the business by any means.

However, it would probably be an easier job than they thought.  The
plan would be to get the baby-bull in the centre of the other cattle,
manoeuvre so as to keep him there, and so pen all together.

This might have been done had Archie kept away, but it so happened
that his lordship was on particularly good terms with himself this
morning.  Moreover, he had never seen a Shetland pony before.  What
more natural, therefore, than a longing on the part of Lord Glendale
to examine the little horse _inside_ as well as out?

"Go gently now, lads," cried Branson.  "Keep the dogs back, Peter, we
must na' alarm them."

Lord Glendale did not condescend to look at Branson.  He detached
himself quietly from the herd, and began to eat up towards the spot
where Archie and his "Duck" were standing like some pretty statue.
Eating up towards him is the correct expression, as everyone who
knows bulls will admit; for his lordship did not want to alarm Archie
till he was near enough for the grand rush.  Then the fun would
commence, and Lord Glendale would see what the pony was made of.
While he kept eating, or rather pretending to eat, his sly red eyes
were fastened on Archie.

Now, had it been Harry Brown, the Whitechapel boy, this ruse on the
part of the baby-bull might have been successful.  But Archie
Broadbent was too old for his lordship.  He pretended, however, to
take no notice; but just as the bull was preparing for the rush he
laughed derisively, flicked Lord Glendale with the whip, and started.

Lord Glendale roared with anger and disappointment.

"Oh, Master Archie," cried Branson, "you shouldn't have done that!"

Now the play began in earnest.  Away went Archie on Scallowa, and
after him tore the bull.  Archie's notion was to tire the brute out,
and there was some very pretty riding and manoeuvring between the two
belligerents.  Perhaps the bull was all too young to be easily tired,
for the charges he made seemed to increase in fierceness each time,
but Archie easily eluded him.

Branson drove the cattle towards the pen, and got them inside, then
he and his men concentrated all their attention on the combatants.

"The boy'll be killed as sure as a gun!" cried the keeper.  Archie
did not think so, evidently; and it is certain he had his wits about
him, for presently he rode near enough to shout:

"Ease up a hurdle from the back of the pen, and stand by to open it
as I ride through."

The plan was a bold one, and Branson saw through it at once.

Down he ran with his men, and a back hurdle was loosened.

"All right!" he shouted.

And now down thundered Scallowa and Archie, the bull making a
beautiful second.

In a minute or less he had entered the pen, but this very moment the
style of the fight changed somewhat; for had not the attention of
everyone been riveted on the race, they might have seen the great
Newfoundland dashing over the field, and just as Lord Glendale was
entering the pen, Bounder pinned him short by the tail.

The brute roared with pain and wheeled round.  Meanwhile Archie had
escaped on the pony, and the back hurdle was put up again.  But how
about the new phase the fight had taken?

Once more the boy's quick-wittedness came to the front.  He leapt off
the pony and back into the pen, calling aloud, "Bounder!  Bounder!
Bounder!"

In rushed the obedient dog, and after him came the bull; up went the
hurdle, and off went Archie!  But, alas! for the unlucky Bounder.  He
was tossed right over into the field a moment afterwards, bleeding
frightfully from a wound in his side.

To all appearance Bounder was dead.  In an agony of mind the boy
tried to staunch the blood with his handkerchief; and when at last
the poor dog lifted his head, and licked his young master's face, the
relief to his feelings was so great that he burst into tears.  Archie
was only a boy after all, though a bold and somewhat mischievous one.

Bounder now drank water brought from a stream in a hat.  He tried to
get up, but was too weak to walk so he was lifted on to Scallowa's
broad back and held there, and thus they all returned to Burley Old
Farm.

So ended the adventure with the baby-bull of Chillingham.  The ring
was put in his nose next day, and I hope it did not hurt much.  But
old Kate had Bounder as a patient in the kitchen corner for three
whole weeks.

* * * * * *

A day or two after the above adventure, and just as the Squire was
putting on his coat in the hall, who should march up to the door and
knock but Harry Brown himself.

Most boys would have gone to the backdoor, but shyness was not one of
Harry's failings.

"'Ullo!" he said; for the door opened almost on the instant he
knocked, "Yer don't take long to hopen to a chap then."

"No," said Squire Broadbent, smiling down on the lad; "fact is, boy,
I was just going out."

"Going for a little houting, hey?  I s'pose now you're Johnnie's
guv'nor?"

"I think I know whom you refer to.  Master Archie, isn't it? and
you're the little London lad?"

"I don't know nuffink about no Harchies.  P'r'aps it is Harchibald.
But I allers calls my friends wot they looks like.  He looks like
Johnnie.  Kinsevently, guv'nor, he _is_ Johnnie to me.  D' ye twig?"

"I think I do," said Squire Broadbent, laughing; "and you want to see
my boy?"

"Vot I vants is this 'ere.  Johnnie is a rare game un.  'Scuse me,
guv'nor, but Johnnie's got the grit in him, and I vant to say
good-bye; nuffink else, guv'nor."

Here Harry actually condescended to point a finger at his lip by way
of salute, and just at the same moment Archie himself came round the
corner.  He looked a little put out, but his father only laughed, and
he saw it was all right.

These were Harry's last words:

"Good-bye, then.  You've got the grit in ye, Johnnie.  And if hever
ye vants a friend, telegraph to 'Arry Brown, Esq., of Vitechapel,
'cos ye know, Johnnie, the king may come in the cadger's vay.  Adoo.
So long, Blue-lights, and hoff we goes."