By the evening of Friday, October 24th, 1913, everything was ready for
my departure.

My clothes were packed in a big, new trunk. A smaller one held my books.
I hadn't the heart to throw away any of the poor friendly things I had
accumulated in my lodgings, the relics of three years of joyless toil. I
had it all properly packed in the old box which had been my mother's,
not forgetting my uniform of an officer of the Reserve, already shabby
with two periods of training--poor officers are never slow to avail
themselves of these extra trainings. I took it to the station myself and
dispatched it addressed to the old curé with whom I stayed in my
vacations.

At five o'clock I had finished a letter telling him of my new start in
life. I had settled up my affairs. I had rather more than 2,300 francs
left, allowing for ten louis I had been glad to lend Ribeyre. I decided
to send the same amount to my old curé for his crumbling church among
the dunes.

When I had posted my letter in the Rue de Tournon, I made my way to
Luxemburg. I passed the white Medici Fountain, where I had so often
waited for the nymphs of my dreams. The sentry was sheltering out of
sight in his box. The great Royal garden had never been so deserted as
on this evening when autumn felt the first touch of winter. Beneath the
bare trees, under a darkening golden sky, the cold circle of queens on
their marble pedestals showed strangely white in the falling light.

The clock of the Senate struck half-past five. The silence of death
reigned in the heart of Paris. The fountains had ceased to play and the
great octagonal basin spread its mirror, clearer--by some miracle--than
the sky itself. A man, the only man beside myself in the famous garden,
was standing at the edge in the curious attitude of a man sowing seeds.
He was throwing bread to the birds. There were some three dozen
sparrows, and fat grey pigeons, gawky, restless birds. He was an old man
in a seedy black coat with the remains of a fur collar. There was a bag
at his feet. I went up and the birds flew away. The old fellow cast me
a reproachful glance, threw his bag over his shoulder and shambled off.
When I left the garden myself it was quite dark.

Four hours later I caught the Paris-Berlin express at the Gare de l'Est.




II


The clear, cold star which had been shining in the steel blue sky had
disappeared.

Vignerte started. "What time is it?"

I lit my electric torch. "Ten minutes to twelve," I said.

I awakened the two runners.

"Henriquez, go to the third section, tell the adjutant to see to the
relief of the second platoon and report to Lieutenant Vignerte.
Damestoy, go to the second section and tell the section officer to do
the same for the first platoon. He mustn't forget the two o'clock
patrol. It will be supplied by the eleventh squad, Corporal Toulet. Got
that? Come, look sharp!"

The two men climbed out. For two seconds the patch of blue sky was
hidden.

A weird, soundless night. A stray rifle shot at long intervals. The guns
silent.

Vignerte resumed his story.


HAVE you ever read _Baron von Heidenstamm_? Meyer Forster has borrowed
something for it from Tolstoy--the whole chapter on the race for the
Emperor's Cup is taken from Anna Karenina--and a good deal,
unfortunately, from our Octave Feuillet. Still, you shouldn't miss the
description of Hanover, life in a German garrison town, and the royal
park in snow. The impressions you get are very much what I felt on my
arrival at Lautenburg at ten o'clock on the morning of Sunday, October
26th, 1913.

For the previous eight hours I had been watching the gradual
displacement of the Walpurgis Harz, shrouded to the south in
copper-coloured clouds by a fertile but ugly, featureless plain. When
the train had crossed the Aller the country became more undulating.
Foaming in its basaltic bed appeared the winding river Melna which joins
the Aller some forty miles below Lautenburg. I was nearing my
destination.

The sky was dull and grey. The town, clinging to the slopes of a hill in
a bend of the Melna, had a certain resemblance to Pau, or, rather,
Saint-Gaudens, thanks to its red-brick houses. Crowning all, in a
distant clump of trees, I saw an old tower. The Castle, I thought.

Like a horse with its head for home the train put on steam. We ran along
and over a number of streams gliding between willow-lined banks. The
white patches where the water ran over boulders and the swaying of the
vegetation spoke of the gentle murmur we could not hear. You would call
it clean, peaceful country, not unlike the Ile-de-France; yes, a country
you could live and be happy in.

Lautenburg station, on the other hand, was frankly monstrous, a smaller
but more extravagant copy of the famous station of Metz. But before I
had time to take in the details, I heard an obsequious murmur of:
"Professor Vignerte?" from a man in a peaked cap who took my ticket.

Marçais had wired the time of my arrival. The man in the cap signalled
and two huge lackeys in black and gold livery suddenly appeared before
me. One of them took my luggage while the other assisted me to enter an
enormous limousine which started at once. In ten minutes we had passed
through Lautenburg and were entering at top speed what I took to be the
great courtyard of the Castle. At all events a sentry presented arms.

"Will the Herr Professor kindly get out?" said the lackey, opening the
door while the chauffeur sounded his horn.

A round, red-faced steward appeared on the steps and bowed three or four
times.

"Has the Herr Professor had a pleasant journey? Will he be kind enough
to follow me and I will take him to his room."

With all the fellowships rolled into one I shouldn't have been addressed
as "Professor" as many times in ten years in France as I was in
Lautenburg on the morning of my arrival alone.

My luggage was in my room. I admit that it was not without a feeling of
approval that I saw a very enticing meal spread out on the table.

"If the Herr Professor wants anything, he has only to ring. Ludwig, his
valet, is at hand, entirely at his service."

As he was going out the stout functionary bowed even lower than before
and handed me an envelope studded with red seals.

"Will the Herr Professor kindly accept the letter left for him by Major
von Kessel."

Major von Kessel, the tutor of his Highness Duke Joachim, offered his
apologies for his inability to receive me on my arrival. Unfortunately
the whole Court of Lautenburg had gone hunting and he himself had to
accompany his pupil. He therefore suggested my spending the day in
making myself at home in the palace. He would have the honour to receive
me at a quarter to ten on the following morning, Monday, with a view to
presenting me to the Grand Duke Frederick-Augustus.

Wishing to test my new powers at once, I rang. Ludwig appeared.

"Good Lord!" I thought, "if M. Thierry could only see you he'd feel
reassured."

The fellow, thirty years old or so, had the most amazingly inexpressive
face I had ever beheld before I went to Germany. Subsequently I became
quite used to these good-natured, blue-eyed bran-bags. His head was that
of nine out of ten of our prisoners.

I only managed to extract from Ludwig one piece of information, that I
should take my meals on the ground floor (my room was on the floor
above) in a room reserved for the civil and military establishment of
Duke Joachim, that is to say myself, Major von Kessel and Professor
Cyrus Beck, of Kiel University. In addition we could all have meals
served in our own rooms if we wished.


Vignerte had hitherto spoken in the same level tone, finding no
difficulty in recalling the smallest detail of a story with which he
visibly lived night and day. But at this point he paused.


I see, my friend, that my tale is not boring you, but I begin to be
conscious now of the difficulties of my task. Hitherto chronological
order has been enough, but at this point I must change it for a time or
I shall risk confusing you and obscuring the broad outline with a mass
of petty detail. Let me give you now a detailed description of
Lautenburg and its inhabitants. When I have done this we will return to
the course of events. They will group the picture.




1. THE PALACE


I should say palaces, rather than palace, as the residence of the Grand
Dukes of Lautenburg-Detmold is a combination of a Renaissance castle,
built on one side of a Gothic keep, and a Louis Quatorze palace
shamelessly copied from Versailles. Taken separately, each of these
components is not without architectural merit, but their combination
presented enormous difficulties to the architect of the Grand Duke
Ulrich, the present sovereign's grandfather, who was instructed to make
a symmetrical whole of these incompatible edifices. He solved his
problem by throwing out a wing on the left, erecting a flanking tower on
the right, and adding in the centre a kind of hall which is a cross
between the Gare d'Orsay and the Chapel at Versailles. I admit his task
was appalling, but why is it that these insoluble architectural puzzles
are always to be met with in Germany?

Such as it is, this immense hall is used both as council chamber and
banqueting-hall, and I must say that, communicating with the gallery of
the palace and the Great Hall of the castle, it serves its double
purpose well enough.

The palace meets the castle in the middle, so that the combined edifice
has the shape of a T. It crowns a hill which towers over the town, and
falls away sheer at the foot of the castle, but in a gentle slope behind
the palace. The Melna passes through the town and winds round the castle
in a gorge, a hundred feet deep or so, before glancing off to bound the
French garden, which stretches behind the palace.

On the town side, leading up to the ducal residence, is a huge open
space, again recalling Versailles. It is also the parade ground, where
all reviews are held. A gilded railing starts from the left wing of the
palace, encloses a triangular court, and terminates at the right wing of
the castle, leaving the great central keep outside.

From this keep, the sole relic of the old Gothic fortress of the
burgraves of Lautenburg, flies the standard in black and white, with a
golden leopard and the Lautenburg motto: _Summum decus, flectere_. This
tower has been spoilt, of course, like the rest of the castle, by an
overload of decorative ornament, in the Augsburg style. Thus the keep is
distinguished by battlements with a lining of zinc, while the peristyle,
the steps of which have a balustrade in excellent taste, is surmounted
by a Corinthian pediment.

The side overlooking the Melna is less debased. The uninviting ravine
has been responsible for this, I expect, as the plaster artists no doubt
looked twice before embarking upon their course of "improvement."
Decorative detail has been replaced by ivy, and exceptionally huge
beeches, which overhang the river and sway their dark heads under the
high lancet windows.

I need not describe the palace. It is a diminutive Versailles, with
twenty-five windows in the façade instead of eighty-nine, but none the
less an imitation good enough to make a majestic copy of majesty.

The French park, albeit under a Hanoverian sky, made a direct appeal to
one's heart. Obviously the owners had lavished every care upon it.
German orderliness had done wonders. Everything was straight and smooth.
A faultless green lawn led to the Persephone fountain, a good example of
Ernout, himself a good pupil of Coysevox. You have only to know that
this garden was planned by La Quintinie, who sent his best workmen to
carry it out, to understand the secret of its spacious nobility.

If the Grand Duke George William, a pensioner of the King of France, was
a great admirer of Louis XIV., his grandson Frederick was one of the
finest products of the age of enlightened despotism. He entertained
Voltaire on a visit, and met Rousseau at Grimm's house. He was
responsible for the English garden, surrounding the French park laid out
by his grandfather, which slopes in picturesque disorder down to the
Melna. The clear, rapid torrent is crossed by a wooden bridge, which
still keeps its name of "Pond de la Meilleraie," and is wide enough to
admit the passage of the cavalcades which start from the castle to hunt
in the Herrenwald, that magnificent forest whose leafy roof, as seen
from the terraces, stretches away to the horizon.




2. MY QUARTERS


Two large panelled chambers on the first floor, in the northern wing of
the castle, opposite the great court. The room in which I usually worked
looked out on the terrace. Through the open window I could see the dark
sea of foliage in a tawny sunlight. An overwhelming silence reigned.

The other, less melancholy, had two windows looking out on the ravine
where the Melna plunged and roared, and beyond that the Königsplatz,
the barracks of the 182nd Regiment and the Cathedral, a garish eyesore.
A white trail of smoke floated on two shining bars--the Hanover express
which had brought me.

I blessed the decision which had deposited me in this part of the
building. It possessed an enormous open grate, with curious ironwork,
and everything dated from the time when German taste was not yet
hopelessly debased.

I was at the extreme end of the castle, immediately above the room known
as the "Armoury." This was a very curious place, though it had been
almost entirely stripped of its contents. The splendid suits of armour
of the great burgraves had been removed, notably that of Goetz von
Vertheidigen-Lautenburg, who was the right arm of Albert the Bear, that
of Miltiades Bussmann, who wounded Henry the Lion, and that of Cadwalla,
mentioned by Hugo, whose helm still bears the mark of the fearful blow
dealt him at Bouvines by the mighty Guillaume des Barres.




3. THEIR HIGHNESSES


The Grand Duke Frederick-Augustus had his apartments on the first floor.
His bedroom, like that of Louis XIV., was in the centre of the main
building, and there was a study on the right, overlooking the park.

Thither Kessel led me at ten o'clock in the morning of the day after my
arrival.

The Grand Duke was working at a plain Louis Quinze bureau. He rose and
held out his hand.

"Monsieur Vignerte, I have no need to tell you all the compliments Count
Marçais pays you in his letter. I know that you represent the personal
choice of the French Minister for Foreign Affairs. It would be absurd of
me to conceal from you that I am absolutely satisfied with such
references. My only wish is that you may find at Lautenburg something of
the welcome we hope to give you."

The Grand Duke, only a year younger than his elder brother, the late
Grand Duke Rudolph, is fairly tall. Born in 1868, he is now forty-five.
Fair, rather bald and clean-shaven, he has blue eyes, which at first
seem to fasten on you and then wander away. Except on ceremonial
occasions I have never seen him in anything but the undress uniform of a
Divisional General, dark blue with the red collar and no decorations.

He had fine hands, which he appeared to contemplate with some
satisfaction.

"Major von Kessel," he continued, "has probably explained to you the
nature of your duties. I need hardly say that I wish you to have the
utmost liberty as to the way in which you perform them. My son is
entered for Kiel University, and I wish him to take his degree there.
You must therefore keep your eye on a syllabus. But beyond that, adopt
what methods you think good. Your special subjects are History and
Literature. I do not know your political views, Monsieur," he added,
smiling. "No doubt somewhat Liberal. But don't feel obliged to change
them. Liberalism is formidable only to democracies. Intelligent
sovereigns have always known how to use it for their own purposes."

He rang a bell.

"Inform Duke Joachim that I want him to come to my study."

My pupil was a tall, very fair young man, rather sleepy-looking. I
realized that I should never have cause to check the speed of his wits.

"Joachim," said the Grand Duke, in a less pleasant tone than that with
which he had favoured me, "this is Monsieur Vignerte, your new Professor
of Literature. I hope the progress you make under his charge will be
more rapid than when you were with Herr Ulricht. What marks did he get,
Kessel, in his last tactics examination?"

"Eight out of twenty," replied Kessel.

"It's not enough. You must get half marks next time. You can go."

The young man went out with ill-concealed relief.

"You see, monsieur," said the Grand Duke, turning to us, "you can always
count absolutely on my authority. Mark my son strictly, if anything
stiffly, and you will always have my approval."

He motioned to us to withdraw. "By the way," he added, recalling me,
"did Marçais tell you you might occasionally be required to display
your gifts as a reader to the Archduchess? Oh," he added, "I ought
perhaps to give you a warning, though it may be excessive caution on my
part. It is quite possible that my wife won't call upon you at all. At
the moment she has returned to her old passion for horses. But, in any
case, it does no harm to be forewarned, and you may be quite sure," he
concluded, with a smile which he well knew how to make irresistible,
"that I shall see that no unreasonable demands are made upon your
leisure."

"I shall be happy to put myself entirely at the Grand Duchess's disposal
whenever she so desires."

"Thank you," he said, and turned to his work.

In the corridor Kessel said:

"If the Grand Duchess takes it into her head to see you, she will send a
message immediately through me. I shall communicate with your valet, so
don't fail to call at your rooms."

Thus it was that from the day after my arrival at the castle to the day
of the fête of the Lautenburg Hussars, where I saw her for the first
time, I called at my rooms five or six times a day, more disappointed
than I cared to admit that the summons which would manifest the good
pleasure of the Grand Duchess Aurora-Anna-Eleanor towards me was not
forthcoming.




4. THE COURT


I doubt whether I should say "Court" in speaking of the entourage of the
Dukes of Lautenburg. The word is somewhat too heavy, but it fits in well
enough with the rigid etiquette which reigned at the castle.

I have already spoken of Major Count Albert von Kessel, of the 11th
Prussian Artillery Regiment, stationed at Königsberg. He passed out top
of the _Kriegs Academie_ at Berlin, and is undoubtedly one of the best
officers in the German Army. He's an officer to his finger-tips, and
although devoted body and soul to his profession, displays only the
inevitable minimum of that impossible Prussian arrogance. He always
treated me with the most perfect courtesy, and I have nothing but praise
for the advice he gave me and the influence he had over Duke Joachim.

Portly Colonel von Wendel, of Hanau Cuirassiers, combines the functions
of governor of the palace and head of the military household of the
Grand Duke. In the second capacity he has under his orders Captain
Müller, of the Würtemberg Chasseurs, and Lieutenants Bernhardt and von
Choisly, Uhlans and officers of the Grand Duke's staff.

He is a good sort, who spends his time shouting when the Grand Duke
isn't there, and trembling like an aspen leaf when he is. I suspect
Kessel has a profound contempt for him. He, on the other hand, treats
Kessel, who is on the Great General Staff, with the greatest deference.
It would never enter his head that his double functions authorize him to
give orders to the taciturn artilleryman.

His _bête-noire_, however, is little Lieutenant von Hagen, of the
Lautenburg Hussars, the Grand Duchess's orderly officer. Rows between
the Colonel and the Lieutenant are of frequent occurrence, but the
junior is backed by the Grand Duchess, who cannot do without him. The
Grand Duke won't hear a word against him. Wendel has to give way. In the
first few days I became conscious of the mutual hatred of these two men.
Without ever getting as far as confidences, the Governor of the castle
made two or three bitter remarks about the difficulties of his task. I
felt that with a little encouragement...

But I'd promised to keep to my own job and never mix myself up in their
affairs.

All the same, little Hagen irritated me beyond words, with his monocle,
his way of looking you up and down, and the self-satisfaction of the man
who feels secure against anything. He had been attached as orderly to
the Grand Duchess for two years, and I understand that at the time she
took him from the Lautenburg Hussars he was on the point of blowing his
brains out as a result of some gaming scandal.

The rest, on the whole, are pleasant enough. They became a good deal
more agreeable when they learned I "was an officer of the Reserve." That
day Colonel von Wendel asked me to dinner. Frau von Wendel, a motherly,
red-haired woman of forty, called me "Monsieur le lieutenant." At
dessert she asked me in a tender voice if I had read the "Fiancée de
Messine." After all this was a better way of spending my time than at
the Sorbonne attending the lectures of M. Seignobos. I only mention his
name because it will do as well as any other.




5. THE LIBRARY AND THE LIBRARIAN


The former plays so considerable a part in my story, that I must devote
a little space to a description of it. As for the latter, Professor
Cyrus Beck, of Kiel University, it seems only just that I should say a
few words in praise of the man of whose death I have been the innocent
cause.

The library had been fitted up in the dismantled chapel of the castle, a
chapel somewhat in the Jesuitical style having been built in the palace.

The beautiful ogival chamber which cuts the great hall and the armoury
at right angles has thus been laid open. The door on the left leads to
the armoury, and the way into the library is by the door at the far end
of the great hall.

Though three or four times larger, it bears a strong resemblance to the
library of the Château de Montesquieu at La Brède, except that, if I
remember rightly, the vaulting at La Brède is romanesque. Otherwise the
general plan is the same. In the centre there is a huge case containing
a remarkable collection of coins, among them a gold medallion of
Conradin, which is a masterpiece. Five or six lecterns have been
transformed into portable desks, the very thing for working. A splendid
system of electric light makes research an easy matter, for the room is,
indeed, so dark that it is impossible to read or write without
artificial light.

Don't expect me to give you even the most summary description of the
riches amassed here since the time of Gutenberg.

I don't believe it possible to write any kind of book on Germany without
having recourse to the library of Lautenburg. The visitors' book
contains the most famous signatures. Amongst others I noticed those of
Leibnitz, Humboldt, Otfried Müller, Curtius, Schleiermacher and Renan.
Even more precious are the treasures contained in the sacristy. There,
in old wooden chests, formerly reserved for vestments and chalices, are
housed the priceless manuscripts which comprise the public and private
archives of the Dukes of Lautenburg, or purchases made by several of
those dukes who were interested in such matters. They have to thank the
Grand Duke Rudolf, brother of the present Grand Duke, for several of the
most important items of the collection. The librarian, Herr Cyrus Beck,
who is engaged in classifying them, kept them jealously under lock and
key.

This Professor Cyrus Beck, of Kiel University, was lent to the Grand
Duke Rudolf ten years ago by the Rector Etlicher, for the special
purpose of cataloguing his manuscripts.

The present Grand Duke retained him in the same post in exchange for an
undertaking to give four hours a week to teach Duke Joachim the exact
sciences.

The old man spent half his remaining time among the manuscripts in the
sacristy, the rest in his laboratory, surrounded by furnaces and
retorts. This laboratory is situated in the triangle formed by the
armoury, the chapel and the walls of the castle. Like my room, it looks
out on the ravine of the Melna, or rather on the trees which almost
entirely shut out the view. The first time I ever entered the
laboratory, accompanied by Kessel, who was to introduce me to our
colleague, I was received much as Gulliver was among the spiders' webs
of the magician of Laputa. A harsh voice screamed out an order to shut
the door, declaring that the draught was putting out the burners. Then
a furious little fellow emerged from amid pungent fumes. Dr. Cyrus Beck
had a bald pate, as polished as if it had been subjected to the most
powerful acids. A long yellowish overall, covered with chemical stains,
enveloped him from head to foot. Among all his paraphernalia he looked
exactly as if he had stepped out of Hoffmann's tales.

He calmed down at the sight of Kessel, proffered his apologies, and told
us that he had just reached the psychological moment in his experiments
on the insulation of ... (something the name of which I have forgotten).
He had almost become pleasant when my companion told him that I myself
intended to do some research work in the manuscript section. He bowed as
Kessel told him that the Grand Duke hoped he would give me every
facility for this purpose, but I could see that he would not do more
than he could help.

"We'll see," I reflected philosophically. "This old chap is full of
fads. Sooner or later I'll find out the one to play up to."

I was in no hurry, having given myself a fortnight before starting on
what was then Professor Thierry's work, but eventually to be my own.




6. THE STATE OF LAUTENBUBG-DETMOLD


The Grand Duchy of Lautenburg-Detmold, one of the twenty-seven States of
the German Confederation, is about sixty miles long from north to south.
Its breadth varies between twelve and twenty-five miles. It has a
population of two hundred and eighty thousand. The Schwarzhugel, a last
buttress of the Harz, is the only orographical system which breaks the
monotony of the Hanoverian plain.

As regards its river system, the Grand Duchy is bounded by the Weser,
and crossed by the Aller. The Melna is the most important river, judging
by the length of its course in Lautenburg territory.

The Herrenwald, a forest of beech and fir, which starts to the north of
Lautenburg, covers a good third of its area. The rest consists of a
sandy tract, very difficult for agriculture, but particularly suited to
brick-making, the principal resource of the State.

There are two towns: Sandau, exclusively industrial, in the northern
plain, with twenty thousand inhabitants; Lautenburg, the capital, forty
thousand inhabitants, seat of a bishopric and the central assizes. A
cavalry brigade formed of the 11th Dragoons and the 7th Hussars, a
regiment of infantry, the 182nd, a half-regiment of artillery, and a
detachment of the 3rd Engineers are stationed there.

The constitution is monarchical, the Grand Dukes succeeding each other
in order of primogeniture, and women are not excluded. The Grand Duchess
Charlotte-Augusta reigned alone at the end of the eighteenth century,
and today the Grand Duke Frederick-Augustus owes his title to his
marriage with the Grand Duchess Aurora.

The Grand Duke of Lautenburg is the immediate vassal of the King of
Würtemberg, and mediate vassal of the German Emperor.

The State of Lautenburg sends three deputies to the Reichstag. Two of
them are agrarians; the third, representing Sandau, is a Socialist. All
three sit of right in the Ducal Diet, which meets twice a year at the
Castle of Lautenburg. The President of the Municipal Council of
Lautenburg and two councillors elected by their colleagues are also
_ex-officio_ members of the Diet. The other members are elected, on a
narrow franchise, by the general population of the Grand Duchy. The
Grand Duke is President. A permanent committee of six members, somewhat
similar to our departmental commissions, dispatches current business
when the Diet is not in session.




7. SUMMARY OF LIFE AT LAUTENBURG


Four times a week I gave Duke Joachim his lessons, two of history, one
of philosophy and one of literature. For this purpose I went to his room
in the right wing of the palace. You will remember that his father
occupied the middle portion, while the left wing was reserved
exclusively for the Grand Duchess Aurora. The walls of Duke Joachim's
study are hung with the best German maps made by Kiepert himself. There
are two portraits, one of the Grand Duke, and the other of his first
wife, _née_ Countess von Tepwitz, a worthy Bavarian with a Luther's
cross, who died three years ago. Duke Joachim is her living image.

You couldn't have a more tractable pupil than this young German duke. He
knows a good deal already, but unfortunately it's all in the same class.
I shouldn't be at all surprised if the State of Lautenburg-Detmold
lapses to the imperial crown on the death of the Grand Duke
Frederick-Augustus.

Those who have always had all they want will probably bridle at the
suggestion that a life with every material comfort is enough for
happiness. Nevertheless, I was thoroughly happy. I had nothing but my
professional duties to worry about. Two or three books, unknown over
here, practically performed them for me.

I was very happy, I repeat. Lunch with the Grand Duke was still a treat
in store, but I had already dined three times with Colonel von Wendel.
His wife took a great fancy to me. I lent her several books I had really
intended for the Grand Duchess. She was a kindly soul, and, besides, it
was just as well to be on good terms with the Colonel.

I generally lunched with Cyrus Beck, Kessel, and the staff. Little Hagen
came every now and then. When he did, the others chuckled maliciously,
and said that the Grand Duchess must have let him out for the day. In
the evening every one vanished. Most of them had friends in the town. I
usually stayed behind with the professor, and sometimes, not always, the
taciturn Kessel. Cyrus Beck then monopolized the conversation with a
recital of his woes. His pupil made no progress. Besides, tutoring
wasn't his job! The Grand Duke Rudolph, now, _did_ know how to treat a
professor. He was a scholar!

I was given to understand that as a geographer he had scarcely a rival.

Kessel, finishing his liqueur, broke in calmly:

"A geographer who didn't understand the handling of a field gun."

Cyrus retorted in scorn:

"Then you prefer the present Grand Duke?"

"I never knew His Highness the Grand Duke Rudolph," replied Kessel,
unruffled. "I only know that the first duty of a Grand Duke is to _be_ a
Grand Duke, which means perfect familiarity with artillery, heavy and
light, so that geographers can work in peace and safety."

The odd thing is that the professor poured out his complaints to Kessel,
of whom he stood in visible awe, rather than to me, a Frenchman. I tell
you the loyalty of these folk is beyond belief. We in France are never
happy except when at loggerheads. But _their_ habit of mind, backed by
the Imperial Police, who are admirably organized, makes them sheep,
compared to which Panurge's flock was imaginative and refractory.

In the daytime my principal amusement was strolling in Lautenburg. The
splendid German uniforms delighted me, though I had moments of dismay
over that prodigious display of discipline. Twice a week the band of the
182nd played in the Königsplatz, opposite the theatre. I liked the
charming _gaucherie_ of the group of girls I passed. They recalled and
exemplified the truth of the old cavalry General von Dewitz's remarks to
his aide-de-camp:

"These girls are thoroughbreds, my boy, a real treat to watch! None of
your faked demi-women, but mothers, real mothers. I'd answer for whole
generations of them. Just look at that buxom wench down there! There's
red cheeks for you, and what a stride! A yard if it's an inch! What a
treat for an old soldier like me. I like looking at 'em!"[1]

I, too, liked "looking at 'em." The spectacle never failed to please,
and that utter docility, that abject acceptance of their destiny,
recalled the words of the French officers who passed through here into
captivity after the disaster at Sedan:

"_Priez une Allemande à s'asseoir. Elle se couchera._"

Night falls, a haze of purple and gold. Lights and noise herald the hour
of café and tavern. A flower-seller passes. I am to dine tonight at the
Colonel's. I must take Frau von Wendel a bunch of _Vergiss-mein-nicht_!...


[Footnote 1: W. Meyer-Forster: _Baron von Heidenstamm_. Part I. 1.]




III


ONE morning in December I was snugly ensconced by my big log fire,
preparing a lesson for the afternoon. There was a dry, cold snap in the
air, and the pale winter sun was dissolving, the night's mist in opal
drops on my windows.

There was a knock at the door.

"Come in."

Outside stood Otto, an ex-non-commissioned officer and head-butler, in
fact, the connecting link between the palace officials and the horde of
valets, workmen and supers whom he had under his orders. His white
shirt-front and round red face stood out sharply against the dark
background of the corridor. Behind him loomed two men bearing some
strange bundles.

"Excuse me, Herr Professor. I hope I am not disturbing you?"

"No, Otto. What is it?"

He came in, followed by the two men, who had their arms full of bunches
of flags.

"Tomorrow is the fête-day of the 7th Lautenburg Hussars, Herr
Professor. The town takes a holiday. We decorate the whole palace, and I
have come to arrange your three windows."

I looked out. The Königsplatz was, indeed, dotted with tiny figures
bustling about with the multifarious paraphernalia of public rejoicings,
tall poles, bunches of flags and streamers.

"Go ahead, by all means."

Very deliberately they set to work. Three huge shields, with the German
imperial standard between the white and red flag of Würtemberg and the
Lautenburg-Detmold banner (a golden leopard on a black and white ground)
were duly erected. The whole was then linked to the other windows by
festoons of enormous green garlands like laurel wreaths at
prize-givings.

Standing there supervising, Otto described to me the next day's
ceremony.

"It is always a very big affair, Herr Professor. Tonight the palace will
be lit up, and there will be a torchlight procession on the arrival of
His Majesty the King of Würtemberg and His Excellency General von
Eichhorn, who is representing His Majesty the Kaiser."

"Is the Kaiser represented at every regimental fête?"

"Not _all_, Herr Professor, but the 7th Hussars is not a regiment like
others. Its flag is decorated. Prince Eitel is a captain in it, and most
important of all, its colonel is Her Highness our Grand Duchess, the
Emperor's cousin. So you will realize ..."

"I realize, Otto, that it is going to be a very fine affair, and you
must have plenty to do."

"You are right, Herr Professor. We have finished now. Come on, you two.
We are very grateful for your kindness, Herr Professor."

I appreciated the turn of events which was to enable me to witness one
of these magnificent German ceremonies, even more when, about eleven
o'clock, a note came up from Major von Kessel. The Prince's tutor
informed me that his pupil was to accompany the Grand Duke at the
preliminary review of the garrison in the afternoon. He therefore
requested me to be good enough to postpone my lesson for a couple of
days.


At lunch, Doctor Cyrus Beck, more hoffmannesque than ever, came down
late in a state of great excitement. I wanted to get some further
information out of him.

"Here's a disgraceful thing," he burst out, enraged. "Have you read this
libelous stuff, sir?"

He held out _La Peau de Chagrin_.

"Libelous stuff?" I said in amazement.

"Yes, silly, libelous nonsense. It takes a frivolous Frenchman to treat
certain subjects with such levity. It is science itself that is
ridiculed here, sir. Just consider. You spend your life in the study of
two or three questions, break retorts, bum your face over crucibles, run
innumerable risks of being blown up and your laboratory with you--and
all that for a tomfool novelist to come along, and, in a few
contemptuous words, which he takes for eternal verities, tell you your
business and make you a public laughing-stock."

"I don't know what particular passage of _La Peau de Chagrin_ is
responsible for your recriminations," I said, "and I'm afraid, in any
case, I'm not competent to defend Balzac on this point. You should know,
however, that, generally speaking, he was extremely accurate. The
historical parts of his work are an important authority. I once heard a
good commercial lawyer say that his descriptions of César Birotteau's
bankruptcy and the sale of the Roguin property are masterpieces from the
legal point of view. Besides ..."

"Sir," he broke in with rising anger, "neither Law nor History has ever
claimed to be an exact science. A superficial intelligence like your
Balzac's can easily excel in them. But science, sir ..."

"My dear Herr Beck," I said, a little nettled, "if _La Peau de Chagrin_
can produce such an effect upon you, I wonder what you'll say when
you've read _La Recherche de l'Absolu_? It refers to a certain Balthazar
Claës, who, like you studies high matters and with the same wealth of
experience as yourself. It is possible that you might discover many
valuable suggestions there."

He was not quite certain whether to take me seriously or not; but
prudently wrote the title of the book on his cuff. Then his lips went to
his spoon, which, in the German fashion, never left the surface of his
soup.

"Are you going to the review tomorrow?" I asked.

I expected a formal negative, and my surprise was great when he told me
he would not fail to attend the ceremony.

"We have seats reserved in the Royal Stand," he said unctuously, "next
to the Corps Diplomatique."

I was very much tickled at the child-like delight of this barrack-room
savant at having an official place at a military ceremony. "What a world
of difference from our anti-militarist intellectuals," I thought,
without knowing for certain which of the two attitudes was the better.


The entire palace was in a state of extreme confusion. Officers in
full-dress uniform swarmed like ants. I met Kessel up to the eyes in it.

"The King arrives at nine o'clock," he said. "You should go to the
station. It will interest you. Meanwhile, if you like, you can watch the
review which the Grand Duke is holding at three o'clock on the
parade-ground."

I thanked him, but not wishing to take the gilt off the next day's
spectacle, and, if the truth must be told, feeling rather small and
absurd among all these folk in brilliant uniforms, I hid myself in the
library. There I began to jot down a few notes bearing on the young
Duke's next lesson on the history of Alexandrine Philosophy.

When I came out darkness had fallen, and I decided to go for a stroll in
the town. It was already illuminated. When I reached the middle of the
parade-ground I looked back, and the whole castle appeared before me in
a blaze of light. My childish pleasure in the coloured lights and fairy
lamps prevented me from noticing that the exhibition did not err on the
side of good taste. But in Germany there is always too much of
everything except that.

In the centre there was an enormous imperial eagle, ten yards high,
carried out in yellow lights. On the left the Würtemberg lion in red,
and on the right the Lautenburg lion in green. The difficulty of
distinguishing these animals with electric lamps had been a very serious
problem for the artist in charge, but in the end a fair measure of
success had been achieved.

A confused murmur of admiration rose from the shadowy groups about me.
At the far end of the parade-ground the Royal Stand was all ready for
the next day's review. The Hanover Strasse, the finest street in
Lautenburg, was thronged with people, who were walking up and down on
the pavements, as if impelled by some mechanical device. At a given
moment the barracks poured out a stream of uniforms. The red tunics of
the Lautenburg Hussars blended with the blue of the Detmold Dragoons and
the dark jackets of the infantrymen. Students who had come specially
from Hanover, flaunted their various caps and duelling scars with an
arrogance which vanished quickly whenever they passed an officer. Thanks
to the approach of Christmas, the brilliantly-lighted shop-fronts were
crammed with a mass of weird and fantastic wares, the childishness of
which was enough to make you weep. The provision stores were crammed
with geese absurdly decorated with the colours of the twenty-seven
German States. A goose adorned with the Rudolstadt blue was cheek by
jowl with a goose in Würtemberg red. The pork butchers exhibited
pyramids of sausages made in the shape of the most famous public
buildings in the Empire--the Reichstag, the Central Station at Berlin,
Cologne Cathedral, etc. But the masterpiece was a triumphal arch of
lard, with bas-reliefs in red jelly and an entablature of _foie gras_.

Girls strolled along in parties of three or four, arm in arm, modestly
lowering their eyes under the insolent stares of the officers.

I dined at the Lohengrin tavern, the largest and most ornate in
Lautenburg. You remember the roundabouts of our childhood. The part
reserved for the band and the old blear-eyed, tinsel-covered nag bears a
very striking resemblance to a fashionable German tavern. They are the
only places, I think, where people can smoke without inconvenience. The
clouds of tobacco smoke which rise to the ceiling suggest nothing so
much as a rabelaisian Walhalla. It was striking eight when yells of
"_Hoch_! _hoch_!" in the street brought the diners _en masse_ to the
door. Amid a forest of sabres a squadron of dragoons was on its way to
the station to act as guard of honour to the King of Würtemberg and
General von Eichhorn.

There was such a mob around the station that I gave up any idea of
trying to get in. It was from a corner of the Roon Strasse that I
managed to get a glimpse, through the hedge of dragoons, of the car in
which the Grand Duke Frederick-Augustus and the King of Würtemberg were
sitting opposite my pupil and General von Eichhorn.

I was absolutely deafened by the noise. From one café I had to flee in
terror of immediate asphyxiation. Students standing on the table
declaimed, sang and bawled out their slogans while tossing off the
contents of colossal pewter mugs. Under blinding electric standards in
the streets women, dressed in the fashion of 1900, with hats slanting
skywards and hopelessly drunk, mingled the eternal pan-German "_Hoch_!"
with suggestive invitations.

As I turned the corner of the Königsplatz, on my way back to the
castle, I passed by the officers' mess. For one second the bright window
revealed to me the pandemonium within. Through the thick curtain of
smoke I caught a glimpse of some thirty men, and, stretched on the table
among the flowers and pools of wine, two naked women.