I was rather late for lunch, and found Professor Cyrus Beck in the thick
of a dispute with Kessel. The latter obviously enjoyed teasing the old
savant, who had a poor sense of humour and was purple with indignation.

My mind was far too full to pay any attention to what they were saying.
I had a vague idea that the professor was explaining that chemistry in
the next war would play a more important part than any other arm, and
that he, Cyrus Beck, was on the high road to a discovery which would
enable an ordinary laboratory and a few retorts to annihilate a whole
army corps.

He was furious at Kessel's gibes.

He ended by appealing to me as witness against the Major, asking me to
quote the passage in which Renan expresses a wish that the destiny of
mankind should be entrusted to a committee of savants armed with a
supply of explosives sufficiently strong to blow the earth to
smithereens if its inhabitants tried to disobey them.

I admit I had not been listening very carefully. "Certainly," I said.
"Allow me, Herr Beck, to ask you something in return."

"By all means."

"Can you tell me what the _Kirchhaus_ is?"

The old man rose. To my intense amazement he glared savagely at me and
went out, slamming the door, before I had time to recover from my
surprise. I looked at Kessel, but he, usually a model of self-possession
and good manners, was literally shaking with laughter.

"What on earth's the matter?" I asked.

"You've fairly put your foot in it," he managed to get out at last.
"Poor old chap; did you notice how furious he was? And to think that he
had hoped you'd back him up!"

"But what's upset him?" I asked, and my astonishment was so genuine that
it was Kessel's turn to be surprised.

"You mean to say you didn't do it on purpose?"

"What?"

"Didn't you ask him what the _Kirchhaus_ was on purpose?"

"I asked him because I didn't know and wanted to," I said, rather
nettled.

He looked at me and began to laugh even more hilariously than before.

"Well, if that isn't the best thing I've ever heard! Don't you know what
the Lautenburg _Kirchhaus_ is, my friend?"

"Well?"

"Well, good God, it's the asylum!"