"One day in February, 1909, when I was just on twenty, I was shooting
duck from a boat in a branch of the Volga when I saw on the bank Papa's
favourite Cossack signalling wildly with his cap on the end of his
sabre.

"He was shouting as well, though I couldn't hear him. I gathered that
something must have happened at home, but I wanted to appear indifferent
in spite of my burning curiosity to know what all the fuss was about. I
only put in to the bank an hour later, when the poor man was almost dead
with waving his arms and shouting so much. He told me the Prince wanted
me in his study. I took as long as I could getting there, anticipating a
good lecture.

"I got nothing of the kind. Papa seemed radiant about something. He
kissed me, then, showing me a large envelope with red seals on his
bureau, he told me what it was about.

"It was a letter to Papa from the Czar. It informed him that in May the
Emperor William was to visit St. Petersburg and that there would be
great celebrations, ending up with a review at Tsarskoïe-Selo; that he
therefore wished the Astrakhan and Aral Cossacks to be represented, and
begged the Tumene Prince to bring a brigade with him. 'The Czarina,' he
added, 'will be glad to make her little niece's acquaintance on this
occasion.' I had forgotten to tell you that I was her niece, owing to
Papa's marriage with a Grand-Duchess of Hesse-Darmstadt.

"I can assure you that I had never found the days long in our Volga
palace, yet, as I listened to my father, I must confess to a feeling of
joyous excitement, and from that moment I had only one idea--to astonish
the Czar, the Czarina, the German Emperor and, indeed, the whole world.
I spent days on end looking into my glass, and admit that I was not
altogether displeased with what I saw there.

"Hitherto I had had my clothes made at Astrakhan by Menjuzan Sœurs,
excellent French dressmakers who visited Paris once a year for their
models and did good business with fashionable Circassian society. Papa
gave me unlimited credit and two days later I left with Mlle. Jauffre.
But I must tell you I had a scheme of my own.

"I came back from Astrakhan and told him I could find nothing at all. I
wept all over him and vowed I would never appear at Court dressed like
a savage. You can imagine that I had no intention of missing such a
splendid opportunity of seeing Paris. Papa took a good deal of
persuading, but I soon realized he wouldn't be sorry to see his old
friends there again.

"We left early in March. My one fear when we arrived in Paris, of which
my head was full, was to betray any sort of astonishment, and that is no
doubt why my manner was somewhat affected.

"Papa lost no time in finding out that he had a whole mass of visits and
engagements. He only put in an appearance at the 'Ritz' for meals and
not always for them.

"He wanted me to go to Redfern, but I chose Doucet, out of perversity. I
have never seen anything more absurd than Mlle. Jauffre, in her
pince-nez and black satin gown, smothered in jet, standing among the
lovely girls who bowed to me and walked up and down to help me to
choose.

"I was asked: 'What does your Highness require?'

"'Everything,' I replied coldly.

"In a twinkling I had ordered six evening gowns, twelve tailor-mades,
two riding-habits, and everything else on the same scale.

"Nothing was _décolleté_ enough for my taste. Mlle. Jauffre was green
in the face. The head saleswoman took it upon herself to tell me it was
rather risqué for a young lady. I told her to get on with the fitting.
Besides, Papa appeared on one occasion and approved my choice. He gave
me a proud look that made me altogether happy, for I knew what a good
judge he was.

"That evening he must have had a twinge of conscience at leaving me so
much to myself, for he told me we were to dine together and instructed
Mlle. Jauffre to bring me to Laurent's in the Avenue Gabriel at eight
o'clock to the minute. I need hardly say that at eight o'clock no one
was there. I sat down on a form and waited. To while away the time I
drew out the little inlaid dagger I carried in my belt and cut my
initials on the bench. I expect they're still there.

"At ten minutes past eight, seeing an old gentleman hovering round us
and feeling the need of a little dissipation, I told Mlle. Jauffre to go
out to the tobacco kiosk in the Avenue Matignon and buy me a box of
_Mercédès_. She demurred at first, but ultimately went. The old man
then came up to me. He had check trousers and a grey felt hat. He began
a very entertaining conversation and mentioned a little flat in the Rue
d'Offémont and a lift hung with tapestry curtains. I turned my head to
hide my uncontrollable laughter and was all the more astonished to hear
a resounding smack. When I turned round I saw Papa. The old gentleman
beat a dignified retreat, murmuring something about having a little
joke. In the moonlight I noticed that his grey hat had been badly
battered.

"Mlle. Jauffre came back with the _Mercédès_. Papa told her frigidly
to return to the 'Ritz' for dinner, and go to bed.

"Laurent's is a place where you dine outside at little lamp-lit tables
under the beautiful trees. The place was crowded. Papa was far more at
home there than in our Volga palace. He introduced me to lots of
celebrities: Bunau-Varilla, Charles Derennes, Monsieur de Bonnefon,
Princess Lucien Murat, Maurice Rostand. I took a great fancy to Rostand,
with his choir-boy's face and manner. We still write to each other, and
he's coming to see me at Lautenburg.

"At eleven o'clock Papa took me back to the 'Ritz' and told me he had to
call at the Embassy in the Rue de Grenelle. You don't suppose I felt
like going to bed! Mlle. Jauffre was snoring like a Nüremberg top, and
I thought I should never wake her. You should have seen her look of
amazement when I told her that she must get up as Papa had arranged to
meet us at midnight.

"We took a taxi in the Rue de la Paix. _Grelot_ I told the driver. I had
heard the name at Laurent's.

"_Le Grelot_ is in the Place Blanche. I don't suppose, dear friend, that
a serious student like you has ever been there. When we went in I was a
little jealous of the chorus of approval that greeted Mlle. Jauffre's
spangled gown. A little roué, hopelessly drunk, called out that it was
Madame Fallières. Then the whole assembly rose as one man and sang the
chorus of a well-known song:


    'La tante Julie,
     La tante Octavie,
     La tante Sophie,
     Le cousin Léon,
     L'oncle Théodule,
     L'oncle Thrasybule,
     Les cousins Tibulle,
     Et Timoleon.'


"I laughed as if I should never stop, and my high spirits infected
everybody--they had looked bored to extinction when we first entered.

"We drank champagne--unlimited champagne. Then we danced. I just showed
those Frenchmen what a Russian princess could do. The only man who could
waltz properly with me was a member of the Hungarian band. We received a
tremendous ovation.

"A negro in the orchestra invited Mlle. Jauffre to dance. You may find
it hard to believe, but she accepted. After all that champagne she was a
different woman. Two dancing girls came and sat by me. One of them,
Zita, a dark girl, wore a dress of blue and silver; the other, 'The
Shrimp,' was all in pink and called me 'Princess,' not knowing that I
was one. They ate my food and drank my champagne. I was in the seventh
heaven and murmured, rather excitedly: 'Paris is lovely, lovely!'

"I suddenly noticed that many of these poor girls had darns in the heels
of their silk stockings just above their patent shoes, so I called out
and threw a handful of louis into the air. They scrambled for them and
found them all with the exception of five or six, on which some of the
most elegant of the gentlemen had neatly put their feet.

"I think I should have stayed there all night if I had not suddenly
heard loud shouts in the next room.

"'Lili, Lili, here's Lili! Vive Lili!'

"I looked up and saw Papa coming in. It was he whom they called 'Lili,'
obviously derived from his Christian name, Vassily.

"He, too, was in the highest spirits. On each arm was a girl, handsome
enough to make me feel thoroughly jealous.

"He was far too busy to see me. I lost no time in making preparations to
go, but it proved a terrible business getting Mlle. Jauffre away. She
was exceedingly loth to leave her negro. In the taxi she sang at the top
of her voice:


    'Caroline, Caroline,
     Put on your shiny black shoes.'


"Then, without warning, she leaned out of the window and began to weep
vigorously, complaining that I had not shown her sufficient respect.

"Papa had a bill from Doucet for thirty-eight thousand six hundred
francs. He did not demur, and I gathered that his daughter's
requirements had as a matter of fact been less formidable than those of
other ladies--a thought which disgusted me not a little.