The Grand Duchess loved sport in season and out of season. Every now and
then she would condescend to hunt foxes or deer by way of entertaining
the officers of the 7th Hussars. But her private and peculiar delight
was sport in solitude, preferably on a wet and windy day without grooms,
attendants or beaters. All she required was a dog and the off-chance.
Many an evening have I seen her in her little room making up her own
cartridges. The pretty little cylinders, blue, violet, green, yellow, or
red, white and blue, were spread out before her on a table, into which
the ramrod was screwed. Carefully packing the copper loaders, she gave
to each its dose of powder, wad, charge of shot and little piece of
white cardboard. When she had rammed all this home, she wrote the number
of the charge on each. Hagen was always present on those occasions, and
as it was part of his duties, it would have been very difficult to get
rid of him. Melusine von Graffenfried, indolent and a poor walker,
preferred to stay behind, lying on rugs and smoking her eternal
cigarettes. Count Marçais, on the other hand, always came with us.
These excursions gave him a chance of showing off his sensational
sporting clothes, on which Aurora never failed to compliment him. I must
admit he was excellent company, with his high spirits and charming
manner. We used to ride out of the castle about two o'clock in the
afternoon. The first stage was the _Herrenwald_. Squirrels swarmed in
the trees. Pheasants rose heavily from the ground as we passed. At the
bottom of some wooded ravine we could hear the fussy but invisible
flight of a woodcock.

Marçais would have preferred to stay there. He liked woodland sport,
pheasant shooting in the open with some one beside him to load his gun
and point out the game: "A cock on the left, Herr Count," "A hen on your
right!"

But this kind of thing was not to the liking of the Grand Duchess
Aurora, who detested everything official on such occasions and in any
case showed a marked preference for water-fowl.

Soon the stunted trees grew rarer, great wastes of marsh appeared, under
a sheen of grey and pale green. The sun above was already a glowing
ball, low down on the horizon.

Two servants were waiting for us at a little rustic hut. They took our
horses. Marçais had his dog, Dick, a big Auvergne pointer, hard of
mouth and apt to range rather far, though it came to heel well. The
Grand Duchess's ugly black and red spaniel seemed a kind of dog brother
to Taras-Bulba.

In sheer joy Aurora dropped the reins and sprang from her horse. I can
still see her opening her "Hammerless" and slipping in the two mauve
cartridges. I can still hear the sharp click of the brass rim against
the steel of the barrel....

At fifteen, armed with an old fowling-piece, I had already tasted the
extraordinary delights of shooting over marsh. When, later, I was in the
army, firing at disappearing targets had seemed to me mere child's play
compared to the fine right and left at diverging snipe I managed to pull
off more than once in those early days.

To the north of Dax there is an immense marsh bounded by the wretched
hamlets of Herm and Gourbera. You reach it through a gorge known as "La
Cible" because the Emperor's gamekeepers used to shoot there in bygone
days.

Here was the same misty waste. How well I remember the soft squish of
the wet ground, as if the earth itself were dissolving, and the tall
yellow grasses, which are sharp as a knife and cut your hands if you're
foolish enough to touch them.

I knew all the birds and beasts, all the varied life of those stretches
of mud, treacherous beds of green moss, reed-fringed ponds--the whole
great expanse that looks so flat and monotonous.

Like the fair sportswoman of the Volga marshes, I knew all the birds
that haunt these wan regions: the black, or water-rail, which hops about
in leafless trees; the red-rail, or corn-crake, which runs at lightning
speed through the high grass, throws the best dogs off the scent,
reduces the sportsman to breathlessness and makes you think you are
after a hare, until it suddenly decides to take wing, from which moment
it becomes an easy prey, poor, silly thing.

There were many species of duck, which sweep dizzily overhead in their
curious oblique and rigid flight; shovellers, pochards, sheldrake, with
their pretty red heads; shrill-voiced teal, which fly in couples and
have a trefoil of three black feathers on their ruddy breasts.

There were lapwings, black and white, like magpies, which rise up
swiftly with their croaking cry and then swoop wildly to earth to dodge
your shot.

There were plovers, handsomest of birds, in their golden spring raiment.

And, last and best, there was snipe, queen of the marshes, and the
finest and hardest of shots; the jack snipe, smaller than a lark, which
has blue and green stripes; the common snipe, which is about the size of
a quail, and amazingly timid, and the great snipe, rarest of all, which
is as big as a partridge.

With their plaintive, hoarse cry they fly in disconcerting zig-zags at
an incredible speed. You aim to the right and when the wind has blown
away the smoke you see the little grey bird vanishing in the dim
distance on the left.

In the midst of these Hanoverian marshes, so like our marshes of the
Landes, Aurora of Lautenburg was even more beautiful than in all her
finery at the palace. Wearing a feather toque and huge but shapely
top-boots, she jumped as lightly as a bird over the sodden turf. The
yellow mist of that water-laden atmosphere seemed to cast a pale mauve
halo about her. Marçais shot calmly and well. Little Hagen was fussy
and always fired too soon. I was a much better shot than either of these
two, but what a poor figure I cut beside the Grand Duchess!

Leaving us the rail and duck, she devoted her attention exclusively to
the snipe. Gradually night came down on the watery waste. The sky turned
to burnished copper in a last conflagration. The great pools were sheets
of green which grew darker and darker. A thin tongue of flame began to
leap from the barrel of our guns every time we fired, a tongue which
became redder as the darkness grew more intense.

It was the Grand Duchess's hour. Her diabolical spaniel was everywhere
at once. We could hear the snipe start up before her and her repeated
cries of "Heel!" Neither Marçais, Hagen nor I could see them at all.
But Aurora saw them all right; each of her shots brought down a little
grey bird.

We would wait for a second. Then out of the darkness came the sound of
rustling grass. The spaniel, dripping, black and shining, with his eyes
full of phosphorus, suddenly appeared, bearing the dead snipe to his
mistress.

It was now quite dark. In the low sky an invisible procession of cranes
passed over our heads, with remote, raucous cries. The Grand Duchess
took the bird from her dog. We went up. I saw her run her fingers over
the poor little body, still warm. No wound could be seen, nothing to
reveal the presence of that tiny ball of lead, or the imperceptible
black hole whence that little life had fled.

Then, with that inconsequence which is the hallmark of the sportsman,
Aurora raised the inert little head to her lips and kissed it.




VI


IT was on Saturday evening, May 16th, 1914, that the Grand Duchess of
Lautenburg did me the honour of telling me the story of her life. Let me
repeat that story to you, not only because certain of its incidents are
absolutely indispensable to a proper understanding of the drama which is
fast approaching its climax, but above all because it gives me an
exquisite pleasure to open this jewel-case and handle the beautiful,
barbaric stones it contains, gems which will always light me through my
blackest hour.

Hagen had had to go to a dinner, given by the 7th Hussars, and was not
there. It gave me no small pleasure to see that she was always more open
with me in his absence, however casually she treated that moody and
stubborn adorer.

Reclining on the white bearskin thrown over her _chaise-longue_, she was
dressed that evening in a very loose, light tunic of yellow Turkish
silk, embroidered in mauve and silver.

Every now and then she passed her fingers through a bowl of huge roses
standing on a low table close by, and we could hear the petals falling
softly on the blue carpet.

Melusine, her hair shaken loose, was sitting on the carpet, resting her
drooping head on the bare feet of her mistress, which she clasped in her
arms from time to time.

From the chair where I was sitting I could see the voluptuous curves of
the girl's smooth throat in the opening of her Valenciennes fichu. The
window was open behind the drawn curtains, and the night breeze, wafting
them apart from time to time, mingled the balmy scents of the
_Herrenwald_ with the heady odours of amber, roses and cigarettes.

With her utter indifference to effect or style, Aurora spoke, mixing up
three languages and interchanging the French "you," the German third
person, and the Russian "thou."


"I expect you know," she began, "that I did not exactly go up in the
world when I married. Once a princess, I am now no more than
grand-duchess, and though I am allied to the Hohenzollerns my husband's
family is not nearly as old as my own.

"I am a Tumene princess. I know, of course, that your western histories
say practically nothing about us. But if you went to Samarkand or
Kara-Koroum, or indeed no further than Tiflis, you would find in our
ancient Mongolian chronicles things that would amaze you as to the
antiquity of our origin, and you would realize that your Broglies and
Cumberlands are mere parvenus compared with us.

"One Tumene prince was beheaded for his hostility to Yaroslav the Great,
and I will go back no further, least I weary you with jaw-breaking
names. Another, much later, gave Ivan the Terrible so much trouble that
that sovereign preferred to treat with him and sent him magnificent
presents, notably an enormous clock with the signs of the zodiac in
sapphires. This was not enough, however, to prevent that Tumene's son
from assisting the Khan of the Crimea with forty thousand horsemen when
he started out to besiege Moscow, in 1571, if I remember rightly.

"You must not think that we were no better than savages because at first
we fought against the Czars. Boris Godounov was glad enough of our help
against the Tartars, Circassians and Cheremisses. I admit we always
preferred fighting against European enemies. It was Alexis Tumene,
son-in-law of Peter the Great, who led the great charge at Pultawa. As a
reward the Czar ordained that his reforming edicts should not run in
Tumene territories. We have at home a portrait in the style of your
Mignard representing Alexis in a feathered cap, a golden lambskin,
embroidered like a chasuble, and wearing his moustaches long, a fashion
which the Czar had forbidden every one else.

"The first Tumene to shave was my great-grand-father, Vladimir. He it
was who was nearly shot by the orders of Barclay de Tolly. I don't
remember the reason. He was in command of the Astrakhan Cossack Corps
who bivouacked in the Champs-Elysées and apparently played the devil
there. My great-grandfather did a good deal of looting, but converted
his booty into cash which he soon lost at the Palais-Royal. You see he
banked on red, and black came up fourteen times running.

"Vladimir's father was at first on excellent terms with Catherine II.
When she had had enough of him she made him marry a lady from Anhalt.
This was the first time my family had contracted an alliance in this
country. I hope I shall close the list. I don't say that to hurt your
feelings, Melusine, but really that particular German was stupid and
miserly. For instance, of the seven children she gave her husband not
one was in her own image. They were all little Cossacks.

"My grandmother came from Erivan. I am told I'm like her, but she was
better-looking than I. She was madly in love with my grandfather, and
abjured her faith in order to marry him. But before this she adored
shooting, which is a long way the finest faith on earth.

"Papa, who will come into my story again, is the second, member of the
family to marry a German, and once more a Hohenzollem. But you must hear
how it happened. Like his grandfather Vladimir, he was an inveterate
gambler. He took an oath to win back everything his grandfather had lost
in France. Indeed, he would have utterly ruined himself there, if you
ever could ruin yourself with lands as big as six of your departments,
Cossacks too numerous to count and flocks and herds which doubled every
year.

"He always spent ten months of the year in Paris--he was a member of the
Jockey Club--Aix, Nice and every other place to which men of his type
resort. It was at Aix that he met my mother. The year was 1882. One
evening he was at the Villa des Fleurs with King George of Greece and
the Grand Duke Vassily. They had been drinking a good deal and should
not have been alone. Then Papa began to pour out scandal about women,
swearing that they were all alike and that he, a Tumene prince and
obliged to marry to perpetuate his name, had decided to marry any one
Fate threw in his way.

"'All right,' said the Grand Duke, 'marry the first woman who comes in
here.'

"'Certainly, provided, of course, that she's not married already,' added
my father, who was religious.

"'I bet you won't.'

"'How much?'

"'A hundred thousand roubles.'

"'Done.'

"I believe King George of Greece had never had such an amusing time
before. Poor man, I was genuinely grieved when he was assassinated six
months ago. Just imagine, you two, what a scene it must have been, with
those three men waiting for the door to open on her who was to be a
Tumene princess, for they knew my father's obstinacy, and that he would
marry Queen Pomaré or Madame Dieulafoy rather than lose his bet.

"The first-comer was my mother, the Duchess Eleanor of Hesse-Darmstadt,
then aged sixteen, and behind her was her English governess. I still
shiver at the thought that, if the Englishwoman had preceded her, Papa
would certainly have married her and I should have been much less
pretty.

"As it happened Mamma was beauty itself, a blonde Melusine. Perhaps not
quite as lovely as you, dear Melusine. I never knew her well, as I was
only five when she died. She never managed to make herself at home in
our Tartary. I remember how she would shiver in the early autumn
evenings at the cry of the curlew in the Volga marshes. Papa was
terribly unfaithful to her. She could only weep, and I'm afraid that's
just the thing that annoys men most.

"I still cannot understand how any one could fail to be happy in our
palace. Please don't think it was a barbarian lair. In 1850 we were
visited by a Frenchwoman, and you can read the book she wrote, 'Voyages
dans les Steppes de la Caspienne.' It was published in Paris. Her name
was Madame Hommaire de Hell, and her husband was an engineer employed on
some geodetical mission. You can verify all this in your books. She was
received by my grandfather and has given a very full description of the
palace.

"This palace is built on an island in the Volga. My ancestors selected
the site on account of marauders. The marauders are no more, but the
place is as picturesque as ever.

"My earliest memory is the noise of the hooter of the paddle-steamer
which plied between us and Astrakhan three times a week. It was an
agreeable sound because it meant visitors--the governor, the French
Minister, a pleasant individual like Marçais, who brought me dolls and,
later on, books. Like a true aristocrat, Papa was never happier than
when entertaining company.

"The window of my room looked over the river. I used to watch the wild
duck, just like so many little mechanical toys, floating solemnly down
the brown waters--especially when my governess, Mlle. Jauffre, droned
out the rules about participles: when the complement precedes, it
agrees; when it follows.... I would get up quietly, take my long
fowling-piece and some 'Number four' and let fly, bang! bang! among the
ducks. The servants went out in boats to bring them in. Papa never
minded as long as I had killed at least half a dozen. Having told you
this, you mustn't be surprised if I make slips in my grammar.

"For the piano I had an Italian professor. He was a republican. He was
always trying to explain to us, with a meaning smile, that he was a
natural son of Garibaldi. I can only remember his Christian name,
Teobaldo. One day, when I was fifteen, he was behind me turning over the
pages of some music I was reading, and kissed the back of my neck. I
must confess I had encouraged him a little, just to see what he'd do. I
burst out laughing. He took that for a responsive thrill and kissed me
again. I laughed as if I should never stop. Suddenly Papa came in. I
thought I was in for trouble, but the room was dark. He picked up his
ramrod, which he had left on the table, and went out. For small game
Papa always made his own cartridges, to get a proper spread.

"Next day I was walking with Mlle. Jauffre in a very thick fir copse at
the western horn of the island. We almost ran into a long, flabby form,
hanging from a cedar. It was poor Teobaldo. Mlle. Jauffre screamed and
fled. I turned him round by the feet to have a good look. Then I fled
also, as fast as I could. His black, swollen tongue was hanging out over
his tie. His eyes were dead white and fat flies were already as busy on
him as on a rotten apple. Perhaps the most horrible thing was that he
had the same expression as when he was kissing me. Since then I have
always loathed men.

"It was about this time that I became melancholy through reading the
'Demon' of Lermontoff, who is a much greater poet than your Vigny, or
even Byron. I was very pale and there were scarlet flushes on my cheeks.
A doctor came from Astrakhan. Between ourselves I managed to bribe him,
and he ordered me to take the waters of Piatigorsk. That was exactly
what I wanted, for you no doubt remember that it was at Piatigorsk that
Lermontoff was killed in a duel.

"The 'waters' of Piatigorsk are a series of waterfalls where the stream
leaps over walls of black granite and glittering mica. That sounds very
impressive, but at the end of a week I was so thoroughly bored that my
cure was complete.

"I don't believe I should ever have lasted out the fortnight Papa had
decreed if I hadn't made the discovery of an extremely picturesque old
Frenchman who gained his living at Piatigorsk by acting as guide to
foreigners on their expeditions in the mountains. He was a political
criminal. I rather think he had been a friend of Vaillant. Anyhow, he
had been exiled from France in Carnot's time, and, like every one else,
had taken refuge in Russia.

"He was a learned old fellow, but he had some peculiar ideas. I took a
particular liking to him, mainly because Mlle. Jauffre used to throw up
her hands and wail: 'What _would_ His Highness say!' every time he spoke
to me of folk I'd never heard of before: Saint-Simon, Enfantin, Bazard,
Karl Marx, Lassalle and the Iron Law. Heaven knows what else!

"I had never read any Tolstoy. The old man lent me 'Resurrection.' I
never knew such a world existed. I had Tolstoy's social creed expounded
to me, to tease Mlle. Jauffre. The old man was jubilant. 'Oh,
mademoiselle! If only you _would_, what a chance!'

"The result was that when we left Piatigorsk I took old Barbessoul (for
that was his name) back with me. Papa was certainly somewhat astonished
to see the patriarch in our train, but, as I looked so well, said
nothing. To tell the truth, he was used to my caprices.

"He did more. Quite close to the island in the Volga on which the palace
stood was another small island, perhaps a square half-verst in area.
Papa gave it to me, and with it fifty moujiks, men, women and children.
There, under the old man's direction, I set up a socialist community,
half Saint-Simon, half Tolstoy: no private property, division of the
instruments of labour according to needs and capacities, etc., etc.

"At first all went well. I spent four hours a day in my socialist
paradise. Old Barbessoul was triumphant. His part in the organization
was something between priest and foreman. Papa thought I was mad.

"You won't be surprised to hear I had soon had enough of it, if only
because things began to go wrong. Feeling safe under my protection, the
members of the community used to go out in boats at night to rob the
hen-roosts of the riverside farmers. Papa had very kindly consented to
relieve them of taxation and compulsory labour. It was perfectly
alarming the amount of kwass they drank. Old Barbessoul was the only one
who couldn't perceive how strongly they smelt of drink, even the women.
Why, after two months, one of them found himself the possessor of all
the agricultural implements. All the others had pawned them to get
kwass. Then, as they could not work, they loafed about all day and spent
the night robbing the neighbouring peasants. One night there was a
regular battle. Two moujiks were killed. Papa was wild with rage, called
me a silly fool, and wanted to hang old Barbessoul. On my entreaties he
refrained, but the community was broken up.

"That was my last experiment with Socialism. It is certain that if it
had not been for Papa's Cossacks all those folk would have cut each
other's throats.