When I went back to my room after dinner I really thought the time to go
and fetch the Grand Duchess would never come.

At length ten o'clock struck, then quarter past. I went out quietly and
peeped through the library door. Good. There was no light. If Cyrus Beck
had unfortunately taken it into his head to work there that night we
should have had to begin all over again.

Half-past struck, but it took me barely two minutes to cut across the
garden. I wasn't late.

Very quietly I opened the door leading into the park. A puff of fresh
air braced me up.

As I was closing it again I started. A hand had just been placed on my
shoulder. At that moment I heard a voice:

"Professor Vignerte, I'm delighted to meet you!"

It was Lieutenant von Hagen.

The night was pitch-black, and we could not see each other. But I
thought I detected that the hand he had put on my shoulder was a little
unsteady. In an instant I recovered all my self-control.

"I thought you were at your mess," I said.

"I'm supposed to be," he replied. "But we all change our minds
sometimes. What about yourself? No doubt you intended to spend the
evening working in your room. Yet here you are."

"It's so stifling tonight," I said, "that I came into the garden for a
breath of air."

"In that case I don't suppose you'll mind having my company for your
walk."

This time I detected so much impertinent irony in his tone, that I saw
it was a case of putting all my cards on the table.

"I'm very much flattered by your attentions, Herr Lieutenant, but I
won't pretend that I wouldn't rather be alone."

He giggled. "_Quite_ alone?" he demanded.

A quarter to eleven had just struck. The sound made me furious. Was this
imbecile to wreck all our plans?

"What do you mean?" I asked angrily.

I realized his idea was to make me lose my self-control.

"Herr Professor," he said, "in Germany we hold one thing very sacred.
Our word of honour. I like to think that it's the same in France. I
won't trouble you any further if, here and now, you will give me your
word of honour that you have no appointment this evening with the Grand
Duchess Aurora."

I started. How much did this man know of what had happened? Once more I
restrained myself.

"Herr von Hagen, one of your novelists, Beyerlein, has written a very
bad book, 'The Retreat.' You and I are about to repeat the most absurd
scene in that book, with the difference that it does not concern the
daughter of a quartermaster-sergeant, but your sovereign, the Grand
Duchess of Lautenburg-Detmold. I'm surprised...."

"I know," he said in a hoarse voice. "And that's just why I intend ..."

"What do you intend? Tell me. Let's have it out!"

"To kill you, Herr Professor."

"And why, if you please?"

"Because you love her and because ..."

The red Hussar choked down a sob. His hand, on my arm, trembled
violently.

"Because?"

"Because she loves you."

I almost pitied him at that moment. But the Grand Duchess was waiting
for me in her room.

"I'm at your service, sir," I said. "Tomorrow, or any day you like."

"Tomorrow," he replied bitterly. "Do you think I'm going to give you a
chance of seeing her? She's waiting for you, I know. You haven't given
me your answer. I must have it now, sir. At once."

This was too much. I wrenched my arm away and thrust him aside with
great violence. He crashed into the wall.

He drew his sword.

I felt quite equal to snatching it from his hand and turning it against
him then and there. But I ran the risk of being wounded, and, besides,
there would be a commotion, a scene. That must at all costs be avoided.

"Herr von Hagen," I said in low tones, "listen to me. I know you
wouldn't be talking like this or trying to pick a quarrel, if you didn't
love the Grand. Duchess yourself."

"Sir," he replied, furious, "I forbid you ..."

"Just listen to me," I said, and there was a ring of impatient authority
in my voice which impressed him. "You love her, I repeat. I'm going now
to appeal as much to your love as to your loyalty as a soldier. The
Grand Duchess Aurora, that glorious woman, is in terrible danger
tonight. You must understand that. Every minute, every second, that you
make me lose increases that danger. On that I can give you my word of
honour here and now."

I saw that I had hit home.

"What do you mean, sir?" he murmured in alarm. "Danger?"

"Yes, Herr von Hagen. Go back to your rooms at once. Don't go to bed.
Perhaps Aurora of Lautenburg will need your help tonight."

He hesitated, then resigned himself to his lot.

"Very well, sir. I accept. I'll go back. But remember that if you've
deceived me ..."

"You need have no fear of that," I replied. "You must understand that
the little meeting you suggested just now must be postponed till
tomorrow morning if you like. I'm just as anxious for it as yourself."

"Until tomorrow, then," he said, smiling. "What time?"

"Six o'clock. At the Meilleraie bridge. It's a secluded spot and the
Melna is handy."

"What about weapons?"

"You can choose," I said. "I leave it entirely to you."

"By ourselves, of course," we said in the same breath.

He stood to attention, gave me a military salute, and vanished in the
darkness.

"At last!" I murmured, with a sigh of relief. Eleven o'clock was
striking as I entered the Grand Duchess's apartments.