My five small posts and twelve sentries were placed. The company was
established in its burrow. Those not on watch were already snoring. With
two trusty men--you can always find some of that breed, wakeful and
inquisitive--I started on my rounds.

"Tell Lieutenant Vignerte I have gone to get into touch with the 23rd.
Ask him to wait for me in my dug-out. I shall be back in a quarter of an
hour."

We crept along the hedges. At regular intervals lights soared from the
German trenches and fell back to earth in a pale blue halo.

"Who goes there!"

"Masséna."

"Melun."

"It is the officer of the 24th sent to get into touch with you. Anything
new on your side?"

"No, sir, unless it's the scrap we've just had with a German patrol. It
was the shots you heard just now. We've killed one."

A corpse was lying in the grass. I bent over it. On the shoulder strap
was the number "182."

"What about his papers!"

"The Captain has them."

"Our small post is two hundred yards away, there, in the coppice.... Oh,
yes! At two o'clock a patrol will come round. Don't forget it!"

"Very good, sir."

"Good night."

When I got back Vignerte was in my dug-out. He was smoking a cigarette.

"Anything fresh?" I asked him.

"Nothing," he replied, "at any rate for tonight. But of course the 22nd
may get a knock. In front of them is a horn of the wood where we have
reason to think that the Boche is working on a sap. The 22nd are to
inspect and, if possible, upset their game. One section goes over at 6
A.M., the rest follow to support it. As soon as the explosions are heard
the 23rd are to fire at the trenches opposite to hold down their
occupants, but we ourselves are not to move unless things go wrong. In
any case the 23rd attack before us. So we can count on a quiet night.
Have you anything fresh?"

"The company has taken over all right," I said. "They're so
uncomfortable, in fact, that I don't think we need worry about them.
Many of them can't help keeping awake. I have got into touch with our
neighbours; their is nothing to report in that quarter except that
they've had a scrap with a German patrol. They've knocked out one."

"Really," said Vignerte. "Infantry or Jäger?"

"Infantry. 182nd Regiment of Prussian Infantry."

"I should like to know," said my friend, "where those folk opposite come
from."

So saying he drew out his pocket Lavanzelle. "160th--Posen,
180th--Altona, 181st--Lippe, 182nd--Lautenburg ... Lautenburg ..."

"Well?"

He repeated, "Lautenburg."

"Do you know Lautenburg?" I said, struck by the tone of his voice.

"Yes," he replied gravely. "Are you sure of the number?"

"Of course," I replied rather sharply. "But what does it
matter--Lautenburg or anywhere else!"

"Yes," he murmured, "what does it matter!"

I looked at him closely. It was quite easy, because, absorbed as he was,
he had no thought for me at all.

"Vignerte," I said, "what's the trouble; you don't seem yourself--any
bad news?"

But he had already recovered and shrugged his shoulders.

"My dear chap! Bad news! From whom? I have no one in the world and you
know it."

"That may be," I answered, "but you are upset tonight. I want you to
stay with me and you can fix up company headquarters where you like."

"I admit I'm a bit overwrought," he broke in. "What's the time?"

"Seven o'clock."

"Let's play cards."

The suggestion was so unexpected coming from him that the two men with
me looked up in amazement. No one in the company had ever seen
Lieutenant Vignerte touch a card.

"Here, Damestoy," he said, "surely you or Henriquez have got some
cards."

They nodded.

As if they would be without!

"What can you play?"

"Écarté, sir."

"All right; écarté." For a full hour Vignerte lost steadily. It was an
odd game. The two penniless soldiers were looking at each other in
amazement, unable to determine which was the more remarkable feature of
this adventure, the honour Lieutenant Vignerte had done them or the
sum--12 francs--they had won from him.

I looked at him in growing perplexity. Suddenly he threw down the cards:
"A silly game. It's eight o'clock and I'm going out to see the first
relief."

"I'm going with you."

I shall never forget that night. The sky had gradually shed its fleece
of clouds, and the moon, almost at the full, shone in the cold blue
dome. Below, the line of sandbags and trenches made long white tracks.

Starshells were now useless and none were seen.

Dead silence reigned. Occasionally a sharp buzz marked the passage of a
stray bullet close by and soon after the crack of the rifle down in the
valley was heard.

In low tones we exchanged the password with our sentries, some sprawling
full length in a shell-hole, others crouching behind bushes. The company
was strung out over a long front, five hundred yards at least, and our
round took us a good hour.

When we got to the end of it Vignerte asked me:

"Where is the last post of the 23rd?"

We visited it. The four men were about to bury the German who had just
been killed as deeply as they could.

Vignerte quickly stepped down among them and leaning over the grave
searched in the soil they were throwing back. The corpse appeared.

"--182nd. That's it," he murmured.

He shivered and turned to me: "Let's go back. I'm beginning to feel
cold."