How I managed to give Duke Joachim his history lesson next morning is a
thing I've never ceased to wonder at. I kept my eyes off the mirror,
terrified lest I should see a ghastly face reflected in it.

At eleven o'clock I was in the Archduchess's small boudoir.

The old Russian waiting-woman went off to tell Melusine, who came at
once. I could see from the half-humorous surprise in her manner that my
call, at that hour, was considered extremely strange.

"You want to see the Grand Duchess, my friend! You are very bold.
Well, as it's you... I'm sure you wouldn't have come without some
very good ..."

As she spoke she drew aside the curtains. The sun shone full on my face.
She started at my appearance, and with difficulty suppressed an
exclamation.

"I'll go and fetch her," she said simply.

I seemed to have been walking in my sleep, pushed on by the force of the
night's events. Left to myself my decision seemed utterly crazy. Why, in
a minute's time I should certainly be taken for the madman I had brought
myself to believe I was. How would Aurora take the story of my
extraordinary adventure? "Save her from the fits of depression and that
kind of spiritual disorder which are so fatal to her physical health."
The words came back to me. It was the request made to me by the Grand
Duke Frederick-Augustus. _This_ was an odd way of carrying out his
wishes. I wanted to bolt.

But the Grand Duchess was already there. She was in such high spirits
that morning that I thought I should never have the strength of mind to
break my news to her.

"Well, my friend," she said. "To what do I owe the pleasure of this
visit? Have you changed your time-table? Have you decided to give me
your mornings in future?"

My tell-tale face produced the same effect on her as on Melusine.

She took my arm and made me sit down on a sofa beside her.

"You nearly fell as you sat down," she said gravely. "Melusine, bring me
the blue casket."

It was a diminutive box in blue enamel. What heathen stimulant could it
contain? As soon as I had inhaled it at Aurora's bidding, I started as
if I'd had an electric shock.

"There!" she said, "you're better already." And added:

"Begin as soon as you feel you can. We're listening."

I told her everything you already know, from my first researches into
the Königsmark drama to the final climax, my visit to the secret
chamber in the armoury and my sinister discovery.

From beginning to end she listened, calm and self-possessed, only
occasionally exchanging with Melusine a glance which revealed
astonishment rather than emotion.

When I had finished she did not speak for a moment, and then said
quietly:

"You have told us an extraordinary exciting story, but you mustn't be
surprised to hear that it does not arouse any other emotion in me.
There's one thing I admit, which comes as rather a shock: the fact that
at Lautenburg you have found a skeleton in the very same place where
there must be one in the palace of Hanover. But what does it prove,
granting that natural death is out of the question, but that the old
Dukes of Lautenburg had no greater respect for human life than their
Hanoverian neighbours? I have always thought so, and it's no great
surprise."

"But it isn't the presence of the skeleton which has been such a shock,
madame," I answered.

"What is it, then?" she said, in that slightly scornful tone she
immediately assumed when she thought you were trying to mystify her.

"It is," I said simply, but picking my words carefully, "that I had in
my hands the right tibia of the corpse which was concealed there, and
that in the middle of that tibia, on its outer surface, was the join of
an old fracture."

Aurora was standing now. She was pressing her hands to her temples. She
had turned deadly pale. Her staring eyes grew bigger and bigger.

"You're mad! You're mad!" she screamed. "Melusine, tell him he's mad!"

Fräulein von Graffenfried rushed to the Grand Duchess, who had fallen
back, rigid, on the sofa. Her eyelids were half closed. I read
inexpressible terror in the look she gave me.

"Mad! Mad!" she screamed again. "He's at Sangha. I have his letters.
Sangha!"

"At Sangha! At Sangha!" the heartrending voice rang out again.

"I've only done what I thought was my duty," I murmured to Melusine,
helping her to get her mistress to inhale the little blue casket.

The kind creature gave me a look charged with meaning, as much as to
say: "I know it, you've no need to apologize."

"Don't be alarmed," she said in an undertone. "Her brain fever has left
her extremely sensitive. And you must admit there's good reason on this
occasion. Look, she's coming round."

Aurora was opening her startled eyes. She saw us two bending over her
and memory came back. There must have been an expression of terrible
concern in our faces, for she smiled and held out a hand which I covered
with kisses.

"Forgive me, children, for giving you such a fright. Good Melusine,
always at her post when she's wanted! And you, dear friend, my thanks."

"You are not angry with me?" I pleaded.

She smiled and shook her head, giving me for answer the Russian saying:

"_Do the rooks hate the sun for showing up the sportsman's gun?_"

She added:

"Melusine, go and tell them that he'll stay to lunch."

To be present at Aurora's table was a signal honour. Melusine alone had
been thought worthy of it hitherto. It was not long before I learnt to
my cost how great the honour was. Meanwhile I only saw in it further
proof of the importance of my revelation.

One would have expected the meal to suffer from the effects of recent
events. It did not suffer in the least, and though Aurora's spirits
seemed a little forced, she was gay throughout. She talked about other
things the whole time. I admired her self-possession all the more,
because my secret was enough to have destroyed it altogether. In that
hour, big with the burden of coming events, I knew the joy of realizing
how indispensable I had become to the haughty princess, who had seemed
to ignore my very existence only five short months before.

When the coffee came Melusine rose.

"Where are you going?" the Grand Duchess inquired.

"To say that you won't be going calling this afternoon," she replied.

"Shan't I?" said Aurora, smiling. "I'm not so overcome as all that. Just
go and say that the car is to be ready at four instead of five."

"Four?"

"Yes. I want a few hours' rest before coming to fetch you at midnight,"
she said, turning to me.

Melusine and I stared at her.

"Does that surprise you?" she continued. "Do you call what you have just
told me important or not? Now this is what _I_ think. One person can
suffer from a delusion. It's highly improbable that two will. At
midnight, my friend, I shall knock at your door. Then you will have an
opportunity of proving your knowledge of secret springs. You understand,
now? Now, Melusine, go and order the car for four o'clock. I've twice
postponed my call on the good Burgomaster's wife, and I mustn't break my
word a third time."

There was so much authority in this order that Melusine went, casting a
long, imploring glance in my direction.

"Poor little girl," said the Grand Duchess. "That look gives me into
your care. Midnight, you understand, without fail."

"Madame," I said firmly, "I'll do anything your Highness wishes. I
understand your resolution. Indeed, I can only approve it. May I just
make two remarks? First, that it would be much better for me to come and
fetch you rather than that you should run the risk of meeting some one
in the corridors of the castle. In the second place, you should know
that the watch make their rounds at midnight. They may be a little early
tonight, and it is most advisable to avoid any chance of being disturbed
in so delicate an enterprise as ours."

"Very well," she said. "What then?"

"With your permission I'll be here at half-past ten. An hour will give
us plenty of time. Fräulein von Graffenfried can stay in your
apartments and receive any callers."

She smiled:

"If by that you mean Hagen, jealous young man, you may as well know that
he's due at his mess tonight, for one of those drinking-bouts for which
any good German would gladly sacrifice the Loreley."

"Hagen or another," I said, with a shade of irritation in my voice. "We
must provide for all emergencies."

"You're right, dear friend," she said gravely. "Then I'll expect you at
half-past ten."