"You mustn't break a man's leg if you don't want to marry him. I need
hardly tell you the sequel. Creatures like myself are bound by their
actions only, and my wildness had committed me to something which the
will of all the Kaisers in the world could not have brought about.

"There was a most sensational scene when I returned on the bay, followed
by Taras-Bulba with his Grand Duke tied on to him. The hunt was stopped.
They all came crowding round us. I had to tell the whole story and made
a point of being as brief as possible, as one does with things of which
one isn't too proud. But the injured man filled in the details. His
fever made him eloquent and transformed me into a heroine. I had to put
up with the congratulations of the whole Court.

"The Kaiser, who magnifies and distorts everything, cried out:

"'What a splendid girl she is--to save her fiancé's life the very first
day!'

"The Empress kissed me. It's a family mania. My father was radiant.

"'My compliments to Your Majesty,' he whispered in my ear.

"I was angry, though amused, and vented my rage on Taras-Bulba, who had
more whip as we went back to the palace than he's ever had since.

"I have one good quality. I like to know exactly where I stand. I
realized that, largely by my own fault, I had put myself in a position
from which there was no escape without one of those scandals which any
princess, worthy of the name, hates more than the certainty of her own
unhappiness. So I decided to acquaint my 'fiancé,' as the Court already
styled him, with my conditions that very evening.

"I asked him to receive me, and he complied at once, after sending out
the attendant who was arranging the cage over his leg.

"When we were alone, this is more or less what I said:

"'My action in coming here will possibly astonish you, sir. But I am,
and always shall be, in the habit of doing what I think advisable
without undue concern for mere decorum. Now I think it is of the highest
importance than you should know _this_:

"'I came to Petersburg to be with my father, to witness some splendid
celebrations and enjoy myself generally--not to find a husband. As
regards husbands, you will do me the honour to believe that I have
refused as many as there are provinces in Russia. The last was a Persian
prince, who possesses a mountain in which emeralds are as plentiful as
truffles in Périgord--and even larger.

"'Well, I came here, and I don't know what has come over everybody, but,
apparently, I must be married. I don't put it that way to offend you.
After all, sir, we hadn't set eyes on each other until three days ago.

"'However that may be, I'm practically bound to marry you. The
circumstances are too strong for mere individuals like you and me. In
our history there are four emperors and empresses, several crowns, and,
no doubt, enormous fortunes. I am sure that Papa would fall ill if I
didn't become a queen, now that he's seen there's a chance. But, above
all, I have broken your leg.'

"He made an impatient movement: 'Don't speak of that.'

"'I _must_ speak of it. I tell you frankly that it is this accident, for
which I am responsible, that has constrained me to accept something
which I would not allow even to be mentioned only yesterday. It is this
mishap which enables me to think that my marriage will not be absolutely
a political affair--a thought which is very pleasing to a girl like me.'

"'I'd rather have the other leg broken, and both arms, too,' he said in
his gentle, melancholy way, 'than hear you use that terrible expression,
"political affair."'

"'I'm sure you would,' I replied, unmoved. 'I agree to be your wife. But
you will not misunderstand me if I make one or two trifling
stipulations.'

"'Tell me, tell me,' he said with some emphasis. 'You know that
everything you may ask is granted beforehand.'

"'Oh! Oh!' I laughed. 'You may find in a minute that you've been just a
little hasty. Well, dear friend' (I laid some stress on that word),
'from my childhood I have always enjoyed the most perfect liberty, and I
don't intend to be deprived of it when I marry. It must be clearly
understood that nothing is to be changed, nothing, you understand.'

"'How could you think it of me!'

"'Don't let us have any misunderstanding as to the meaning of words,' I
said. 'Please realize that it is not a child, nor yet a woman, who is
speaking, and understand that my stipulation, the expression of an
unshakable resolve, is that our union is to be a relation of friendship,
excluding everything else.'

"I don't know if I should ever have dared to continue my shocking little
speech if his masculine stupidity had not shown me how.

"'You're in love with some one else!' he said in a hoarse voice.

"'You forget yourself, and please don't be foolish,' I replied gently.
'I will condescend to tell you that I love no one, unless, perhaps--for
the word "love" is a jack-of all-trades--my native land, hunting,
flowers, to be left alone and two or three other things, which really
should not arouse a jealousy only to be regretted in a man of
intelligence. Are you satisfied?'

"He smiled wanly.

"'This,' I went on, 'is our little private compact. The chanceries will
no doubt attend to the public formalities--and everything else. I attach
no importance to them. Nor do you, I hope. I need not say that you will
always find in me a consort worthy of yourself, equal to any situation
that may arise, and capable, if God so wills it, of bearing worthily
that famous crown of Würtemberg. Here's my hand on it.'

"He took it and kissed it fervently. A great joy had banished the
trouble in his eyes. I had never expected him to accept his fate so
quietly. Then I suddenly grasped his reasoning: 'I shall be so good, so
tender and thoughtful to her that she must be won over in the end,
though I cannot now tell how far off that end may be.'

"There was so much unaffected pathos in the poor man's delusions that I
couldn't help being rather touched. We parted the best friends in the
world.

"As I went back to my room I heard a terrible uproar in the Great Court.
It was Taras-Bulba, who had got bored with his stall, kicked open the
stable-door, knocked down an ostler and two sentries, and was neighing
fiercely to me from below. It was a much more difficult matter to get
him quiet than to deal with the Grand Duke Rudolph.