The Grand Duchess's bridge-table was set in a curious little Louis
Quinze salon on the first floor. Two Bouchers, a Largillière and an
excellent Watteau were its best features. Flowers, masses of flowers,
everywhere.

Remembering that Hagen would be there, I had made a special point of not
arriving first. Indeed, it was a quarter to ten when I knocked at the
door of Aurora of Lautenburg.

It was Melusine who opened it.

"I'm very pleased to see you!" the charming creature murmured as she
took my hand. The Grand Duchess gave me a smile of welcome and beckoned
me to the table, at which she was already sitting with Hagen. I had an
impression that the red Hussar was in a thoroughly bad temper, and this
pleased me so much, that I lavished the most delicate attentions upon
him all the evening.

Aurora of Lautenburg was wearing a kind of black silk tunic, very
_décolleté_, with masses of gold braid and edged with chinchilla at
the neck and sleeves. A net of gold filigree confined her cloud of tawny
hair.

She played with careless assurance, nearly always winning, and never
missing a lead, and Melusine, too, played well. I made appalling
mistakes, but as luck would have it, calmly trumped my partner's tricks
and ended by winning. The thought that Hagen would several times have
thrown his cards in my face if it had not been for the Grand Duchess's
presence made me almost delirious with joy.

The first rubber came to an end as the clock struck eleven. The Grand
Duchess rose.

"Cards will ruin you, little man!" she said familiarly to Hagen. "I
haven't forgotten that you have General Hildenstein's inspection
tomorrow, and must be down by six in the morning. You needn't hesitate
to leave Melusine and myself alone," she added, "as Monsieur Vignerte
has kindly consented to keep us company. So you'd better go to bed."

With maternal solicitude she offered him his sword. He took it with a
fiendish glance at me, which I pretended not to see.

Melusine von Graffenfried smiled her eternal sphinx smile.

"Let us go to my room," said Aurora. "Monsieur Vignerte, don't forget
the books you have brought me."