"The day came. My only fear was that the country we hunted would be too
flat, too easy. I was quickly reassured. It is true that there were a
good many paths in the woods, quite suitable for ladies, but there were
also patches of thick scrub, several streams, and here and there some
tricky ditches.

"Before we started I gave Taras-Bulba half a pound of sugar soaked in
whisky, and he was very lively though full of dignity.

"I won't pretend that there was not a chorus of exclamation when he
appeared. The Crown Prince asked me why I didn't have him clipped.

"'Don't listen to them, old friend,' I murmured in my little steed's
ear. He understood and knowingly tossed his head.

"The Grand Duke Rudolph rode up beside me. I made myself so agreeable
that the poor man evidently felt encouraged and said in a low voice:

"'Then you don't regret having me for your companion, mademoiselle?'

"'How could you think so, sir?' I answered. 'This Court half suffocates
me. We never have a moment to ourselves. There's room to breathe out
here. We can talk.'

"'So you love Nature!' he murmured, radiant. 'How happy I am!'

"I was happy, too. I was certain that he wouldn't leave me for a second.

"The first fox was started. Nothing remarkable happened except, perhaps,
when Taras-Bulba, fired by the sound of the horn, performed a polka and
came down with his forelegs on the back of Adalbert's mare, almost
unseating her rider. After that they all kept away from my little horse
as if he'd been the plague.

"The Grand Duke of Lautenburg was riding one of those horses so beloved
of the Germans, a great dark bay with hocks as big as a ham, and a back
like a billiard-table. Moreover, it didn't take me long to notice that
the ugly brute had a hard mouth and galloped with his head between his
legs.

"My poor friend, I thought, you'll have some fun soon when you come to
the ditches.

"A second and a third fox were killed easily enough. Suddenly a fourth
started up between me and the Grand Duke. I caught sight of him, a long,
lean animal with hardly any tail. I knew at once he was what I was
after.

"'Ours!' I cried to Rudolph.

"He spurred his great brute into a gallop.

"The fox was a hundred yards ahead. Good little beast! He made straight
for the thickest cover.

"Every now and then the Grand Duke turned round:

"'I'm not going too fast, am I? Can you keep up?' he asked, panting.

"'Go on! Go on!' I replied.

"And Taras-Bulba snorted as if to echo:

"'Go on! Go on!'

"Soon we were in the depths of the woods. Then I just touched my little
nag's neck and gave him his head. In a moment the Grand Duke was left
behind.

"I caught a glimpse of him, all red and breathless.... He was now a
quarter of a verst behind me.

"I told Taras-Bulba to slow down and he did so.

"'You did give me a fright,' said the poor man as he came up. 'I thought
your horse had bolted.'

"'Look out!' I cried.

"There was a stream at our feet. He got over it by the skin of his
teeth. The fox, with three hounds at his heels, was running ahead in a
flat meadow that sloped away from us.

"Then came more woods. I held my head down and thus escaped the
scratches of the branches which were pushed aside for a moment by
Taras-Bulba's head, only to close up immediately behind him. But my poor
companion's face was already covered with blood. A twig carried away his
eyeglass. I felt he was done. His big horse was blowing like a
steam-engine.

"'Keep going,' I cried, 'the fox is tiring!' and I gave Taras-Bulba a
touch of the spur.

"The little animal doesn't like liberties. He gave a tremendous bound.
His rival followed painfully behind amidst a terrible noise of broken
branches.

"'You're beginning to tire,' I said to myself. 'You'll come down next
time.'

"'Next time' appeared in the form of a ditch fifteen feet wide and as
many deep, with a half-concealed and extremely tricky edge. For a second
even I asked myself whether Taras-Bulba, with the pace he had just been
keeping, would manage to get over. But lo and behold! He picked himself
up, the gallant little beast, and flew over like a swallow.

"Then I turned round, knowing full well what would happen.

"It _did_ happen. Horse and rider came down in one terrific crash. The
beast missed the edge with its hind legs and unceremoniously hurled its
master to the ground.

"I jumped down and went up to the Grand Duke, feeling vaguely that I had
gone a bit too far.

"'You haven't hurt yourself, I hope?'

"'I don't think so,' he murmured faintly. 'I was so frightened to see
you go over this vile ditch.'

"Poor man! I wanted to beg his pardon.

"'Can I help you up?' I said, in some embarrassment.

"'I should be glad if you would.'

"But I tried in vain to get him on to his feet. It was then that I
noticed how pale he was.

"'You've broken your right leg,' I cried.

"'Oh, I don't think so,' he said, in his gentle, disarming way. 'Nothing
worse than a sprain.'

"'I tell you you've broken your leg; I know what I'm saying.'

"I pulled out my hunting-knife and slit up his boot. The leg appeared,
all swollen.

"'We're in a nice fix,' I thought, 'at least six versts from the field.'

"Rudolph was silent, but looked at me out of his fine, gentle eyes.
You'd have thought he was happy.

"'Thank you,' he just murmured.

"'What for?' I burst out. 'I have broken your leg and you thank me! You
might at least wait until I've got you out of this mess.'

"He looked very contrite and ventured:

"'You'd better go back and send up some help.'

"'What!' I exclaimed in scorn. 'Go back without the fox, and, when I'm
asked where the Grand Duke Rudolph is, tell them that I left him at the
bottom of a ditch with his leg in little pieces! No, thank you, sir!'

"'As you please,' he replied faintly. 'But I don't know what you can
do.'

"'You shall see.'

"His big horse was standing by, browsing placidly under Taras-Bulba's
wicked little eye.

"'Come here, you brute!'

"When I got hold of him I realized I should never have the strength to
get the Grand Duke into the saddle.

"'What's the good of horses like haystacks?' I cried in exasperation.

"The injured man looked at me, still wearing that perpetual air of
apology which at last got on my nerves.

"'Taras-Bulba!' I called.

"The little beast came, though with a bad grace. He suspected what was
going to happen.

"Rudolph of Lautenburg could not restrain a movement of apprehension.

"'You're not going to put me on that animal, are you?' he muttered. 'I'd
rather stay here.'

"'Never,' I said, stamping. 'Taras-Bulba is as quiet as a lamb. Now just
do what I tell you.'

"That German was a tremendous weight, but I managed to get him up and
tie him firmly in the saddle with the reins.

"Then I mounted his great beast.

"You can imagine how I cursed myself for my folly as we went back. The
man I wanted to hate had won my sympathy--and I'd done it myself! It
only wanted Taras-Bulba's look of amazement to complete my discomfiture:

"'What on earth have I done?' he seemed to say, 'for you to give me a
German to carry, while you desert me for that ugly, hairless, brown
brute with hoofs the size of frying-pans?'