Tuesday, October 21st, 1913.--Night was falling. In the Rue August-Comte
I ran into groups of schoolboys coming out of the Lycée Montaigne. Oh,
schoolboys, scholars and otherwise, stick to your mathematics, enter the
Arts et Métiers, keep to your counters, lest one day you, too, find
yourselves this comic puppet which skirts the Luxemburg and is lost in
the Rue d'Assas.

Always that "spirit of fancy" of which my kind tutor disapproved! Well,
let's give the poor thing a farewell treat and take it to dine on the
right bank.


Vignerte paused at this point of his story. Then he resumed:

"A bullet whistled past a short time back--there, just above our heads.
Did it occur to you that if you had happened to pop your head out at
that precise moment you'd have been laid out stiff! How far do you think
luck goes in life?"

"The other day," I answered, "there was trouble in the 11th Squad. No
one wanted to go on water fatigue. Each of them said it wasn't his turn.
As the squabble grew fiercer I intervened. I sent the first man I came
across, the one who had been protesting loudest, as it happened. He went
off grumbling that it wasn't fair. He left his cap behind him. When he
came back he couldn't find it. It had been pulverized by a shell and his
twelve comrades with it."

"We seem to agree," said Vignerte.

He resumed his story.


What impulse was urging me on that evening, I, who confined myself to
the tawdry delights of the Latin Quarter and never crossed the bridges
at night? I remember I tried a one-man orgy at the "Grand V." Then I
thought I'd like to take my coffee on the terrace of the Weber.
Pretending I could refuse myself nothing, I passed before the lamps of
the Olympia with the fixed intention of granting myself the joys of the
promenade. Rather excited after my bottle of Barsac I walked very
straight, staring brazenly at the girls.

It was cold. I went back to Weber's and at once the lights and the
throng restored my natural timidity. I sat down humbly in a corner with
that lack of ease characteristic of a man who is afraid that people will
notice he is not used to being there.

Opposite me a group of young people were making a good deal of noise.
Enviously I studied their clothes and that air of easy assurance, the
sure sign of a happiness which, perhaps, I should never attain. Truly I
was not exactly made for the University, I whom learned expositions,
bibliographies and works of reference left sceptical, I whose heart
almost beat quicker at the sight of a well-cut waistcoat, a well-tied
tie and elegant socks visualized under well-creased trousers!

They were a party of four, one a woman, pink and pretty, in her furs.
Painted a little, perhaps, though I've never minded that. She was seated
next to one of the handsome young men, and facing me. The other two had
their backs to me, but in the mirror I could see their faces, slightly
flushed by a good dinner, which was then approaching its end.

That evening I realized the humiliation of those who go for their coffee
to a fashionable restaurant. Said I to myself: "You'd far better have
stayed at home, dined anywhere, gone to bed and slept, yes, slept. Sleep
is the poor man's haven. You oughtn't to have come here."

And yet.... It was gradually beginning to dawn upon me that one of the
men with his back to me was studying me closely in the mirror, when he
got up and came over to me.

"Vignerte!"

"Ribeyre!"

I had come across this Ribeyre during my advanced rhetoric course. He
had already obtained his _licence_, and was, like me, a candidate for
Normale, though he displayed that indifference to results which comes
from a private income and ambitions in other directions.

"What are you up to?"

"You can see for yourself," I said, somewhat stung. Then I added
quickly:

"What about you? Anything new since Henri IV.?"

"Don't mention that awful hole, old boy. Talk about instructing youth! I
should have made a mess of things if I'd listened to them...."

He, too, added:

"What about you?"

"I couldn't help having to listen to them. I'm still listening to them,"
I replied bitterly. "But what's your job now? You don't seem to be
having a bad time."

"I've been extraordinarily lucky, my boy. I was appointed Private
Secretary to a Deputy, and six months later he became Minister for
Foreign Affairs. I followed him to the Foreign Office. There we are! But
come out of your corner and I'll introduce you to the friends of
Ministers."

Ribeyre did indeed introduce me.

"My friend Vignerte--a worker if there ever was one. Got his diploma and
Lord knows what else--_Agrégé_, perhaps? No--so much the better for
you. Who knows it better than we three, not to mention Clotilde."

Clotilde nodded stiffly and gave me an ironical glance.

I was on the rack. This panegyric was so suited to my poor, baggy
trousers! It was very charming of them all the same, though perhaps this
praise of my brains was more a compliment to their own tact and skill in
dealing with any situation.

After a short time Ribeyre got up.

"Good-bye till tomorrow, you people. My salaams, Clotilde. You must come
with me, Vignerte, and see me home."

Outside he took my arm.

"I'm going to the office. There are some letters of the old man's to
send off. Come with me."

The Rue Royale was a blaze of light. Women swathed in long silk cloaks
stepped from cars at restaurant doors. The sight of this world of luxury
intoxicated me, urged me, drove me to try and extract some material
advantage from my chance meeting with Ribeyre. I felt he was only too
anxious to dazzle me with his new glory. Who knows, perhaps I should end
by getting something out of his desire to parade his power. What can't
be got from human vanity!

What about my own vanity, when I ascended the steps of the Foreign
Office at his side? A tall lackey took us up in the lift--another
received us on the first floor.

"Any telephone messages, Fabien?"

"Yes, sir, one from the Minister of Commerce. He is dining with the
Minister tomorrow, and says they will meet at the Chamber. I took the
message down in writing."

A minute later we were in a charming little grey and gold room. Ribeyre
tapped the desk.

"Vergennes' table," he said casually. "Excuse me," he added, sitting
down. He began to open letters, marking them with a red pencil as he did
so. "Don't mind about talking. This isn't a very exacting job. Tell me
what you are doing. How far have you got with the University?"

I told him the whole story from my leaving Henri IV. to my approaching
appointment at M. Berthomieu's. He looked up.

"You've accepted it?"

"What else could I do?" I answered sharply. "I can't starve."

Starve! The word sounded oddly among all the Gobelins, Boule furniture
and Sèvres.

Ribeyre rose. I had an intuition that I was saved.

"You needn't go to Berthomieu's, old chap. You'll do for yourself at
that game. I know you, and I'm positive you're not made for the
University. What you want is _this_."

With a sweep of his hand he indicated the pageant of power about us.

What a psychologist Ribeyre was!

"Listen," he said, perching himself on the arm of my chair. "Have you
any objection to leaving the country for a bit? I say for a bit, because
it is only in Paris that the game is really played and won. At present
you haven't a sou. This is the sort of place where a fellow like you
with enough to live on for a year and no material preoccupations could
have the future at his feet."

"Well?" said I, breathless.

He went on, relishing the pleasure of appearing such a great man. "All
right, then. You will do me a good turn in exchange for mine. I lunched
this morning with Marçais at the German Embassy. Do you know Marçais?
He is our Minister at Lautenburg. Have you heard of Lautenburg?"

"It is one of the German States."

"It is the Grand Duchy of Lautenburg-Detmold. Reigning Sovereign, His
Highness Frederick-Augustus," he said magisterially. "His Highness is
afflicted with an heir of about fifteen, for whom he is seeking a tutor.
You know that French is a _sine qua non_ in every Court. Have you got
your _licence_?"

"Yes."

"Good. Do you know German?"

"Fairly well; enough for the Sorbonne."

"Doesn't matter. They all talk French over there. Well, the Grand Duke
instructed Marçais, when he left for Paris, to find him a tutor.
Marçais is a charming fellow, a man of real distinction!... Charvet
makes him his exclusive ties. Afterwards he destroys the model. But this
is no reproach. He's not much good at getting out of a hole. Yesterday
he casually told me of his mission. He is going to the Ministry of
Education tomorrow, and as you can imagine, he will find tutors galore
there, especially in view of the salary the Grand Duke offers--ten
thousand marks a year."

"Ten thousand marks!" I echoed in amazement.

"We must fix the thing up at once. I'll write a note to Marçais."

He read it out to me. I could only blush at the compliments he lavished
on me.

"Marçais will get this tomorrow morning. He is a punctilious old
fellow, and if he's up at nine o'clock it will be to summon you. By the
way, what's your address?"

"7, Rue Cugas."

"Don't forget to give your Rue Cugas a call or you may miss his
appointment."

"Give me the note," I said. "I'll post it myself."

My eagerness obviously flattered him. A vain smile spread over his face.

"Lucky dog! Instead of old Berthomieu's fare you're going to sample life
at a castle, or, rather, a palace. Lautenburg is a marvellous place, I'm
told. Marçais preferred remaining there to two years' promotion. The
Grand Duke is a pleasant fellow. The Grand Duchess hunts foxes better
than a man. Marçais told me he killed his best horse trying to keep up
with her. The only thing is, mind you make a place for yourself."

I saw him glance at my poor clothes.

"You need not be afraid of that," I broke in, with an assurance that
surprised him. He looked at me and smiled again.

"I do believe I'm revealing you to yourself. Keep at it over there, old
chap. Come back to us with a few spare thousands. My chief is well
established here, but if he sinks I shall leave the ship first. We shall
come up smiling. If you really want to get something useful out of
people you must have passed the stage of depending on them. There's
nothing better than a Minister's cabinet, but you must be able to sit
tight and have something in reserve. Otherwise you may find yourself
reduced to selling local offices for two thousand francs. You won't find
it hard to save six thousand marks over there. You'll have no expenses,
so fit yourself out well. It is money invested at a hundred per cent.
You might copy Marçais in that. If he wasn't so well-dressed he'd have
been booted out long ago."

So spake Etienne Ribeyre. Among other valuable tips, he had just proved
to me that in life it may often happen that a casual acquaintance can do
more for you than a friend.

Oh, lovely October moon, gazing down on Paris! The Seine flowed in a
soft purple mist. I posted my note in the Rue de Bourgogne at the corner
by the Chamber of Deputies. Then I felt I must have a walk to be alone
with my thoughts. Ten thousand marks! Twelve thousand, five hundred
francs! Money does not mean happiness! Then what on earth does? What had
given me that confident step, that self-assurance, that lightness of
heart?

The Rue de Varenne, the Rue Barbet-de-Jouy, the Boulevard Montparnasse,
in turn witnessed my triumphal march. I took no notice of my fellowmen,
for I was in my hour. I do not know how my gaze happened to fall, near
the Observatory, on a figure moving furtively under a lamp. It was a
slip of a girl, with a fleece of red-gold hair. My joy was too great
that evening for me to bear it alone. But, standing by her, not for a
moment did I think that her body was really her own. The slight form was
that of the women of the Champs-Elysées, of the beauties of Maxim's,
nay, of those maidens, incomparably fairer, who were doubtless even then
awaiting me in a far away German Court, on the banks of a Wagnerian
river, beguiling the weary hours with the sweetest strains of the
Intermezzo.