The feeling of depression in which this visit left me quickly vanished
when I got to the money-changers, where I converted half my German notes
into French money. I spent the rest of the afternoon in visits to
tailors, boot makers and hosiers. For the first time in my life I knew
the exquisite, almost painful joy of spending money without reckoning.
As I was stock size I had no difficulty at "Old England" in finding a
suit, overcoat, and boots to fit. My shabby clothes were wrapped up and
sent to my lodgings. Then, as my confidence rose, I tried my luck at a
fashionable tailor's. On the strength of my new appointment, I ordered
dress clothes, a frock coat and another lounge suit I paid the eight
hundred francs required in advance in return for the promise that they
would be delivered during the evening of the next day.

Seven o'clock.

Oh! the wondrous beauty of the Boulevard des Capucines in October! Oh,
the joy of finding oneself well dressed and with money--lord of all,
absolutely lord of all!

The pale blue lamps of the Olympia presented their barbaric curtain of
light. Cabs rolled by. Taxis tooted. The Madeleine, peering through the
evening mist, raised on high its huge, shadowy entablature. On, on. All
this would be behind me the day after tomorrow. I meant to enjoy my
ephemeral royalty.

I experienced a curious sensation. I had money, but I could not make it
give me acquaintances on the spot I had money, but without a friend to
prove it, I might just as well have been without it.

A sudden recollection brought a bright idea to my mind. I went into
Weber's. Ribeyre and his friends of the previous evening would be just
on the point of meeting. The thought of Clotilde possessed my mind. She
had been wearing a long black velvet cloak above which peeped her small
head with its coils of glossy fair hair.

What a treat to appear before her in my new glory!

Ribeyre had already arrived.

"Hullo, old boy! All's well. I've just seen Marçais. He's delighted.
You seem to have the voice of the charmer all right. Good Lord, you
haven't wasted much time," he said, noticing my transformation.

I thought I detected a touch of sarcasm in his tone. I thought of
Gautier's story of Baudelaire rubbing his new suit with sandpaper to
take off that offensive nap so dear to philistines and bourgeois. My
confidence was a little shaken. I almost expected to see my newly-won
joys dissolve on the spot. Then I thought, "What does it matter? I know
it's only ready-made, but I couldn't come here in my shabby boots and a
suit two years old. Just let them wait a day or two!"

And the knowledge that I had been fitted out at one of the most
expensive tailor's restored my spirits entirely.

Clotilde arrived. She had on white fox furs which seemed to me the last
word in luxury and good taste. When I had bought a poor flower-seller's
entire stock of violets for her, she condescended to notice my existence
and soon made me feel I was much more to her liking.

"Clotilde," said Ribeyre, "if you love me you will exchange Surville for
my friend Vignerte this evening. He is in funds and he's leaving the day
after tomorrow, two things which women seldom fail to appreciate."

A quarter of an hour earlier this extremely masculine joke would have
jarred on me very greatly, but the terrible white port was already at
work, and besides Clotilde wore an amused smile and did not say no.

Surville arrived with the other man, one Mouton-Massé. They were both
in the Ministry of the Interior.

"We can't stick in this hole," said lanky Surville. "Twice running is
too much. Charmed to see you, sir. You dine with us, of course?"

"My friend Vignerte wants you to give him the pleasure of being your
host," said Ribeyre. "He is leaving the day after tomorrow for the Court
of Lautenburg and wants us to share his travelling expenses."

Little Mouton-Massé indicated that my desire met with his approval.

"Where shall we go?"

For a good ten minutes these gentlemen discussed the point, tossing from
mouth to mouth names utterly unknown to me: "Viel," "Les Sergents," "La
Tour," and even stranger animal names, "Le Coucou," "L'Escargot," "L'Ane
Rouge."

I was not listening. A third glass of port had wafted me to Paradise
itself. The warm restaurant atmosphere went to my head. I thought with
some disdain of my prospects of yesterday, with its poor man's
education, its fellowships, the Heads of the four Faculties and the
Vice-Rector in his room in the Rue des Écoles. These fashionable women
and young men of the world who flittered round me under the lights
reminded me of the cold passages of the Sorbonne and Henri Martin's
fresco of Anatole France, dressed as an explorer in a landscape dotted
with flowers, explaining to a dozen ill-dressed young graduates his
personal conception of human destiny.

_There_ is the true conception of life, I thought, gazing admiringly at
Clotilde, who was pinning the mauve and green bouquet to her white fur.

Ribeyre and his friends being at length of one mind we took a taxi which
put us down in the Place Gaillon at the door of some restaurant, the
name of which I have forgotten. Within, heavy hangings shut off the
dining-room from the prying eyes of passers-by. Surville knew the place
and led us to a small private room where five covers were soon laid.

I sat next to Clotilde, or rather (a matter of more concern to me) the
woman who bore that name. I may as well say I have completely forgotten
what we had at this famous meal. Everything was unquestionably highly
spiced, for we drank like fishes. "You must give me _carte blanche_,"
said Ribeyre, with a mocking glance first at Clotilde, then at Surville.
A diminutive black waiter took our orders in the grand manner. I'm not
certain but I think Ribeyre had met him before. "No champagne," he had
said. I know no more. We began with a little Pouilly, dry as frost, to
accompany the oysters. Then Mouton-Massé, who hailed from that region,
suggested some '92 Saint-Emilion, whereupon Clotilde insisted upon
Beaune, the wine of her own country. I did not lose this opportunity of
winning her favour and ventured to ask the waiter to bring the best.
Then Ribeyre improved the occasion by ordering Wolscheim in one of those
long-necked, narrow-mouthed bottles. I should add that the greatest
triumph was mine in winding up with the suggestion of a wine from the
sandy Landes. None of the others had ever tried this formidable juice of
grapes which on our barren dunes drink in the pale yellow rays of an
ocean sun--a drink which leaves your head clear and your body active but
plays the devil with your legs.

Surville and Mouton-Massé kept me in small talk. Clotilde called me
Raoul and made me promise to send her postcards. Ribeyre, stronger in
the head, never stopped talking to the little black man except to
signal, "Don't you worry," with his eyes.

I felt a god, with the extra joy of being aware of my rapid ascent. I
saw again the miserable boneshaker which had borne me two days before to
the God-forsaken station in the Landes. One small lamp in the darkness;
and wind, real wind, wind from the sea. Within me even blacker darkness.

The Sauterne, liquid gold, sparkled in the glasses. The shades of the
lights were reflected in it like little crimson tulips. I saw Clotilde's
teeth shine on the glass from which she sipped, with little laughs that
made her white throat shake. Her hand on mine communicated to me the
tremors of that yielding, artless creature. Ribeyre was in the highest
spirits. Mouton-Massé was busy with _crêpes-au-Kirsch_; Surville was
drinking.

There was a scene when the liqueurs came and Surville insisted on claret
glasses.

Mouton-Massé vainly pointed out that liqueur glasses would do if the
bottles were left on the table. He wouldn't be satisfied, so they gave
him one. The staff had gone. The cigar smoke dimmed the light. The
flowers were dying on the table. Surville snored. Mouton-Massé had
pulled out a note-book and was attempting some absurd calculation in
which he got tied up and swore volubly. Ribeyre, who hadn't abandoned
his original notion, slipped his right arm under my left, his left under
Clotilde's right, and drew us together. Then he whispered in the ear of
the girl, who laughed gaily, her lips moist and a little shiver rippling
down her back.