It was on Tuesday, the 28th, that Melusine's obsequies were celebrated.
The Grand Duke, the Grand Duchess and Duke Joachim walked behind the
hearse, its white pall hidden under the fragrant glories of Daghestan.

I was lost in the crowd of officers, palace officials and leaders of
Lautenburg society. The Grand Duchess had ordered a squad of the 7th
Hussars to render the honours. By the Grand Duke's orders the great bell
of the cathedral beat time to the procession with its heavy measured
toll. A tall old man, with the ascetic face of a Moltke, in an ancient,
shiny black frock coat, came first, with a haughty and sullen lieutenant
in the blue uniform of the Brunswick Hussars. They were Richard and
Albrecht von Graffenfried, the dead girl's father and brother.

When the coffin entered the Temple of the Siegstrasse my very marrow
seemed to freeze. It made me shiver to think that Melusine, whose
voluptuous form seemed to cry aloud for the luxurious pomp of the
Catholic ritual, should have belonged to the reformed faith.

I had never been in a Protestant temple before. They are awful places.
Your very tears seem afraid to rise, lest they should freeze on your
eyelids.

Pastor Silbermann delivered a sermon, his thin form, in its uncouth
gown, reminiscent of the master of some masonic lodge emerging from a
kind of revolving pulpit. For some reason I could not fathom he had
selected from the Scriptures the incident of Jephthah's daughter.
Nothing could have been less appropriate to the frail departed than this
reference to the sacrifice of that dismal, austere Jewess.

For a whole half-hour the pastor expounded, with the indefatigable
enthusiasm of a mathematics' master the three conditions for the
equality of triangles.

When he came to the celebrated phrase, "_Strike this bosom which for
thee is unveiled_," my eyes sought the Grand Duchess. I saw she was
weeping.

We went from the Temple to the station in cars. The coffin, with its
fast-fading flowers, was put in a special carriage.

When I returned to the palace I met Lieutenant von Hagen in the Great
Gallery, as deserted at five o'clock in the afternoon as if it had been
midnight. He was pale and appeared as if he had been waiting for me.

"Monsieur," he said, in a low voice, "yesterday morning I waited for you
two hours at the La Meilleraie bridge."

"I had entirely forgotten our little meeting," I said. "I admit it
frankly."

"After this," he muttered quietly, "may I hope there'll be no more of
your troublesome lapses of memory?" And so saying he tapped my cheek
with the glove in his right hand.

I had some difficulty in keeping myself from retaliating with a good
sound cuff. His elaborate pretence of self-possession saved me.

"Sir," I said, "I shall be at your disposal at six o'clock tomorrow."

"Let us arrange everything now, if you please. No seconds, no witnesses,
of course. As you are the challenged party, what weapon will you
choose?"

If I had been less excited than I was this question would have been a
very awkward one. As it happened, I didn't hesitate.

"This," I replied, drawing the Grand Duchess's revolver from my pocket.

I could see it was a shock, but he concealed it.

"It's not exactly usual, is it?" he said. "But, after all, what does it
matter? All right. Seven shots at discretion, immediately after the
signal. What about the distance?"

"Ten paces," I replied, utterly indifferent to what I was saying.

A sickly smile wreathed his mouth.

"A duel to the death then, monsieur. It shall be as you wish."

He turned and left me.

I found the Grand Duchess in her room. I had not been there since the
tragedy. She beckoned to me to sit down, but did not speak. Gradually
darkness descended upon us. The lamp which burned before the ikon began
to glow. Melusine's guzla was still lying on the carpet. Our thoughts
were the same. They dwelt on that other glorious instrument of delight,
already a prey to the mysterious transformations of death, which also
would never vibrate again.