I went back to my room, opened the window, and, gazing out at the cold
stars, drank the dregs of humiliation. I understood. She felt a hopeless
antipathy to me. What was it? What had I done? I didn't know.

The outcast's motto came back to me: "To work!"

I could still hear the distant strains of the band. Limousines crossed
the Königsplatz with their glaring headlights. Their occupants were
happier than I, for they had seen her since I had.

To work!




IV


WELL, Raoul Vignerte! What are you after now? What's this new craze of
yours? Why! only a few weeks ago you didn't know in the morning where
your dinner was coming from. Your acme of happiness was to be certain of
the next day's meals. Here you are certain not only of tomorrow's, but
next month's, and even for years to come. You have only to devote
yourself to your work--work, the only thing that brings no regret. And
with all this you are unhappy, not merely unhappy, but actually
miserable. You are more miserable than on the day when you arrived at
the Gare d'Orsay, turning out your pockets to see if you could find a
proper tip for the porter without changing your one gold piece, which,
once broken into, would vanish all too quickly. What is the cause of
your suffering? Your cursed imagination. Isn't it because you know that
henceforth all the beauties of Paris, all the treasures of France, could
not satiate the longings within you? She! a beauty, a Grand Duchess!
Poor fool! You called yourself an anti-romanticist and used to make fun
of the Romantic Drama. Yet here you are, when it suits your purpose,
repeating all unconsciously the adventure of Ruy Blas, lackey to
Monseigneur the Marquis de Finlas. Is this what your gods, Le Play and
Auguste Comte, have brought you to? You are a funny creature! Why, the
queen of your dreams is even further from you than from that little red
Hussar with his elegant indolence, rank, and a coat-of-arms to back
him....

I got to work and gradually found that the dust of the library chased
away my envy, hatred and regret. I accustomed myself to the idea that I
should never set foot in the left wing of the palace. I liked to think
that she dawdled out life there with her Melusine, and that I was never
made for such a place. I deliberately intended to take away from my
visit to Lautenburg everything I thought could help or amuse me. In two
years' time I should have saved five or six thousand francs and
collected material for three or four books. I would return to Paris, and
with my methodical industry and the memory of what I had missed, would
make her mine. After all, Paris was better than this scornful, barbaric
beauty!

Professor Thierry had drawn up an excellent plan of campaign, and the
further I explored the library, the more I appreciated his wisdom. The
history of the German dynasties contemporary with Louis XIV. sheds a
wonderful light on his reign, throwing its natural attraction into
greater relief. The single preoccupation of German princelings towards
the close of the seventeenth century was to imitate the King of France,
the usual method being to secure the services of artists, or pupils of
artists, who had worked for him. But while every French seigneur made a
point of having a particular artist to work exclusively for him, it is
amusing to see how the Germans usually clubbed together to share the
expense of commissioning some particular painter, sculptor, or gardener.
It reminds one of the way in which poor Parisian families club together
to buy a sack of vegetables or a whole lamb at the _Halles_.

I discovered among the archives most of the estimates of the French
painters and sculptors who worked not merely for the Dukes of Lautenburg
and Detmold, but also for the Dukes of Lüneburg-Celle and the Electors
of Hanover. Ernout executed most of the statuary groups in the gardens.
Gourvil, a pupil at La Quintinie, laid them out. Lesigne, a pupil of
Lebrun, was commissioned to do the frescoes. A Catalan, Giroud, was in
charge of the iron and locksmith's work. Zeyer, a painter in lacquer and
instructor to Princess Sophie-Dorothea, has left some charming work on
the doors of the Herrenhausen Palace at Hanover and of the Palace of
Lautenburg.

Their accounts were hotly disputed by the stewards of these Sovereigns,
and in many cases the princes themselves did not hesitate to suggest
reductions in their own hands. I examined with great interest a long
bill of Giroud's, exhibited by that artist before a Hanover tribunal in
1690, to justify his charges for the installation of a number of secret
springs at the Herrenhausen. Duke Ernest-Augustus, the future Elector,
failed to establish his case for reduction. At that date, at any rate,
Hanover had judges who judged.

I had decided in principle to confine my researches to the influence of
France on the Courts of Germany in the seventeenth century. I had at my
disposal a mass of documents, more than enough for Professor Thierry's
purpose and comprising material for a book of my own. It is to that
Zeyer, lacquer artist and instructor to Princess Sophie-Dorothea, that I
owe the extension of my original plan. I found among his accounts a
transcript of his evidence before the Commission of Enquiry which tried
the unhappy Hanoverian sovereign. He is thus responsible for the events
which were to follow.


Vignerte stopped, thought a moment and then put
an unexpected question.

"Do you know the dramatic story of Count Philip Christopher of
Königsmark?"

For answer I repeated the following lines:


    _The Count of Königsmark once loved a queen,
       Became the queen's own lover, so folk say,
     In her own room, censed with fresh-burnt verbene
       When nights were young as when they died to-day._

    _What idle thoughts she poured into thy mind
       Who could declare, what idle tales she told
     As beaded bluebells all the while she twined
       With hearts' ease in her locks of russet gold._


"The author of those lines," said Vignerte, "had read Blaze de Bury's
book. It is the only useful work in French on the tragedy. Do you
remember it?"

"I'm afraid I've forgotten most of it," I confessed.

"I shall have to give you the story in some detail. It will not explain
my own adventure. It makes it even more extraordinary."


You will certainly remember what was the general situation in the State
of Hanover in 1680. Its sovereign was Ernest-Augustus, a profligate
versed in all the arts of statesmanship, who had been successively
Bishop of Osnabrück, and Duke and Elector of Hanover. His brother,
George-William, was Duke of Brunswick-Lüneburg. Ernest-Augustus had a
son, George: George-William a daughter, Sophie-Dorothea.

The ambitions of Ernest-Augustus had a double goal. His primary aim was
to recover his brother's estates for his family. There was only one
method--to marry George to Sophie-Dorothea. The marriage took place in
1682 when the Duchess of Brunswick-Lüneburg was only sixteen.

The other ambition of Ernest-Augustus soared higher. It was the crown of
England. Fortune favoured him. One after another the twelve children of
Queen Anne were gathered by death. Ernest-Augustus was not to see the
fulfilment of his work--he died in 1698--but his son George reaped its
fruits. On the death of Queen Anne in 1714 he mounted the throne of
Great Britain as George I. He mounted it alone. Eighteen years before he
had separated from his wife as the result of an infamous intrigue, and
when her husband assumed the crown of England the wretched
Sophie-Dorothea was dragging out her weary days in the Castle of Ahlden,
more prison than palace.

You must forgive me for this dry summary of facts. It is essential I
should be clear.

The story of Sophie-Dorothea's divorce is the story of the assassination
of Count Philip-Christopher von Königsmark.

A member of one of the highest and most ancient Swedish families, friend
of the Prince-Elector of Saxony, as dark and handsome as Sophie-Dorothea
was fair and lovely, Count Philip and the Duchess of Brunswick-Lüneburg
had known each other at Celle in their childhood when they were
affianced in the ingenuous manner of the times. Their ways had parted,
however, and Philip had led the adventurous life of a gallant Swedish
free-lance at the Courts of James II. and Louis XIV., at Dresden and
Venice.

Was Sophie-Dorothea's marriage a spur to his old love or a blow to his
vanity? Whatever the reason, the fact remains that one fine morning
Hanover witnessed the arrival of Count Philip von Königsmark.

The Court of the Elector was a den of debauch, a garbage-heap on which
Sophie-Dorothea, fair lily, was slowly fading. Betrayed by a husband
whom she had ever despised, compelled to tolerate, as gracefully as she
could, the virago Countess von Platen, the abject favourite of
Ernest-Augustus, she spent her weary life in solitude, preoccupied
solely with the education of her two children--a son who was destined
for the throne of England, and a daughter who was one day to be Queen of
Prussia.

Then Königsmark arrived at Hanover and the drama opened.

Count Philip had come to take his revenge by winning back the heart of
Sophie-Dorothea. But before he had even set eyes on her Countess von
Platen had her eye on _him_. He deemed it wise not to flout the
all-powerful favourite, but he was obliged to go to great lengths in
order to soothe the susceptibilities of that woman--a Messalina and Lady
Macbeth in one. He went, in fact, to the furthest limit. Once
compromised, she would be in his power--but it was he who found himself
in her clutches.

Then began the idyll of Philip von Königsmark and Sophie-Dorothea. The
gloomy Herrenhausen Palace witnessed their ephemeral loves.
Sophie-Dorothea's first notion was that the gallant Count had come to
Hanover only to see for himself the misery and desertion of her who had
been compelled by her father's wishes to marry another. His practically
open liaison with Countess von Platen added fresh torture to her lot.
But one morning, going with her lady-in-waiting to the little wood in
the Herrenhausen park where she sat out every day, she spied the Count
just moving off. A note was left on the seat, with these lines, in the
style of Benserade:


     In other days a fickle swain was I;
       Upon the green from lass to lass
       At any hour I'd lightly pass;
     Only a change, this pleased my eye
     But since I've seen my fairest Sylvia's face,
       From her my love no more can range,
       I'll make one last supreme exchange.
     From her I'll never change my place.


Was Sophie-Dorothea Königsmark's mistress? I still doubt it, even after
reading their correspondence in the archives of La Gardie. But I must
freely confess that it must have been quite impossible to doubt it in so
corrupt a Court as Hanover, where it was common knowledge that Duke
George's wife received the handsome Swedish adventurer every evening in
her apartments.

The vindictive Countess von Platen was the last to know that she was the
laughing-stock of the whole palace, but that day the doom of both Count
and Duchess was sealed.

On the evening of Saturday, July 1st, 1694, Königsmark, returning to
his room, found on his table a note with a few words scribbled in
pencil:


Princess Sophie-Dorothea will expect Count Königsmark this evening,
after ten.


This note, a forgery imitating Sophie-Dorothea's handwriting, was the
work of Countess von Platen. Königsmark, unsuspecting and brave as a
lion, kept the appointment. He left the Princess at two in the morning.

Next morning Sophie-Dorothea saw from her balcony two men furtively
wandering in the park as if they had lost something. They were Count
Philip's servants searching for their master. He was never to be seen
again, by them or any one else.

There you have the tragedy, my friend. There remains the _dénouement_,
the divorce of Sophie-Dorothea. That unhappy young woman of twenty-eight
lived in a world of enemies. She wished to leave her husband, who was a
nightmare to her, but was prevented by the wishes of her father, who had
forced a marriage on her for political reasons. A love-sick girl could
not be allowed to upset the pretty scheme which had the throne of
England as its possible goal. The unhappy creature refused to lend
herself to it. She was dangerous for other reasons. The Swedish Count
had relations. And so she was duly divorced after a trial in which she
suffered every outrage and humiliation. Her children were taken out of
her care, and ultimately the wife of the King of England, once more
plain Duchess, died a prisoner in her Castle at Ahlden in 1726. Then
only did the parental fury relent. The vaults of the castle in which she
was born were opened to her corpse. There, in the obscurest corner of
the crypt of the keep of Celle, is a humble coffin, bearing no
inscription. It contains the mortal remains of Sophie-Dorothea, wife of
the Elector George-Lonis of Hanover, King of England under the name of
George I.

I have outlined, as briefly as I could, the story of Philip von
Königsmark and Sophie-Dorothea. I need hardly say that many points in
the tragedy have never yet been cleared up. The assassination of the
Count is undoubtedly the most obscure incident in the whole affair.
Witnesses agree that it was Countess von Platen who set the trap in
which he perished. Ten hired assassins pierced him with their swords and
the horrible Countess herself dealt him the final blow. But what was
done with the corpse? This is where the mystery begins.

Opinions are divided. Was the Count, as some say, buried in a grave in
the park? Or, according to another version which I have reasons to
believe the true one, was his corpse covered with quick-lime and thrown
under the stone floor of the room known as the "Knights' Hall"? Or was
it simply cast into the latrines which communicated with the Lüne
flowing at the foot of the castle, as the author of the "Secret
History"[2] would have us believe? Was his the corpse, as Horace Walpole
asserts, which was discovered twenty years later under the floor of a
retiring-room in the Herrenhausen? I only put these problems to explain
to you, though to me it still remains inexplicable, my feverish
resolution to solve them. You may well imagine that the mystery was more
vivid and intriguing to me than to any other man, partly because of the
situation at the palace, with its many points of resemblance to that in
which the tragedy took place, and partly because of the priceless
material at my disposal in the ducal library.

The most valuable authority till then available was the correspondence
of Königsmark and Sophie-Dorothea, to be found in the archives of the
La Gardie Library at Loeberod in Sweden. This correspondence was
discovered by Professor Palmblad, who published extracts from it at
Upsala in 1851. When Professor Thierry in taking leave of me had
referred me to Palmblad's work, he hoped that at Lautenburg I should be
able to discover a portion of the correspondence, which wandered all
over Germany before finding a definite home at Loeberod. I was, however,
unable to find anything, though I had compensation for my disappointment
in another and most fruitful discovery.

You remember I spoke of Sophie-Dorothea's daughter a short time ago. She
married the Crown Prince of Prussia, the future "Drill-Sergeant King,"
Frederick I. "A harsh and tyrannical husband," as Blaze de Bury writes,
"his first act, on mounting the throne, was to forbid his wife formally
to hold any sort of communication with the prisoner of Ahlden. It was
only when Sophie-Dorothea had inherited from her mother a revenue of
twenty thousand crowns, a very considerable sum in those days, that the
royal miser began to soften towards her, though his sudden concern was
purely mercenary, being based solely on his wife's possible interest in
the inheritance, an interest which the celebrated jurisconsult,
Thomasius, had laboured to establish."[3]

The Queen of Prussia was the meekest of women, but, urged on secretly by
her confessor, she had never ceased to reproach herself for not having
boldly taken her captive mother's part, convinced as she was of her
innocence. She began to take advantage of her forbidding husband's
better moments to collect the material on which to base proceedings to
clear her character. Unfortunately Sophie-Dorothea died in 1726. This
did not deter her royal daughter from pursuing her labour of love.
Thanks to her resolution and the learned assistance of the jurisconsult
Thomasius already mentioned, an enormous dossier, comprising some twelve
hundred documents, was prepared. It established beyond doubt
Sophie-Dorothea's innocence and Countess von Platen's ignominy. This
monument of filial devotion was never to serve any practical purpose. An
anonymous note at the top of the file records that on the
representations of George II., King of England, communicated to his
brother-in-law, Frederick I. of Prussia through the British Minister,
the rehabilitation suit was never begun. The English King observed to
his sister, not without truth, that every piece of evidence disproving
their mother's guilt only established their father's.

The submissive Prussian Queen yielded to the force of this political
argument. The file, a monument of futile industry, after various
wanderings recorded in the note I have mentioned, ended by falling in
1783 into the hands of the Grand Duchess Charlotte-Augusta of
Lautenburg, niece of the reigning sovereign. It was this very file that
I had the good fortune to discover among the uncatalogued manuscripts in
the ducal library at the end of January, 1914. From the original notes
of the cross-examination of Fräulein von Knesebeck, Sophie-Dorothea's
confidante, to the record of Countess von Platen's confession,[4] had
before me everything required to reconstruct the story of the mysterious
Herrenhausen drama. In the casual manner of historians in dealing with
uncatalogued manuscripts I carried off to the privacy of my room the six
packets containing the whole melancholy story.

What a pageant of love and chivalry, crime and passion, grandeur, life
and death, was unrolled for me in its musty pages and clerkly script in
divers tongues! At night, when the castle was asleep, I pulled my table
up to my glowing log fire and worked in a kind of burning frenzy. Here I
touched history, live history, not the poor second or third hand
imitation which was doled out to us, according to syllabus, from the
Sorbonne Library. I will admit, I must admit, that the fumes of romance
mingled with the soulless passion for knowledge that seized my very
being. The Court of Hanover danced before my eyes, fantastic and
brutal--Ernest-Augustus, the Silenus of politics; George-Louis, the
narrow-minded profligate; Countess von Platen, the fearsome Messalina,
beautiful and winning notwithstanding; Königsmark, the swarthy
adventurer in his blood-stained doublet of pink and gold; pure-souled
Sophie-Dorothea, fair and slender in her wedding gown of silver brocade.

Silver, did I say? _There_ spoke the historian, the maker of books. But
oh! how much fairer, how much nearer, I imagined her in another gown, a
gown fresh in my mind! A gown of green velvet!

Winter was almost over, already yielding to the spring. I had opened my
window to help my fire to draw, and through it the air wafted in with
the magic touch of living breath. Through the darkness I felt the
presence of the black trees, their bare branches quivering with the
promise of life.

Several times, my friend, my dear friend--when death hovers overhead why
should I not confess those follies which are the price and glory of life
for men like ourselves?--under the spell of that old story of a gallant,
murdered lover and a fair dead Queen, and impelled by an instinct the
sureness of which Fate was in due course to reveal, I pushed open the
door of my room with a beating heart. The corridor was dark. The old
staircase creaked beneath my steps. Often in the great hall I had seen
the lantern of the sleeping watchman. What on earth should I have said,
had I been challenged?

The open postern exposed a great steel blue vault in the middle of which
mysterious Cassiopeia seemed to shiver. I went out, crossing the
moon-bathed lawns, hiding in the shadows of the yews. A light shone in
the centre wing of the palace. The Grand Duke Frederick-Augustus must be
a late worker! All was dark in the left wing, but when I reached the end
of the building and pressed myself against the wall I knew that here,
too, there were some who kept late hours.

Spring was not yet with us, but one felt that the song of the
nightingale would soon be heard. Bright and spearlike, a ray of light
spanned the gravel path, emanating from another window dark with heavy
hangings and curtains.

The nightingale was not yet singing in the French park, embedded in the
heart of that Germany whither Fate had led me. But behind that window a
poignant long-drawn wail, interrupted at intervals by maddening silences
that made my nerves quiver with apprehension, came slowly and softly
from the silent palace straight to my heart. For Fräulein von
Graffenfried was playing Schumann's most plaintive berceuses to her
mistress on her violin.


[Footnote 2: _Secret History of the Duchess of Hanover_, published in
London in 1732, without the author's name but attributed to Baron von
Bielefeld, _chargé d'affaires_ of the Court of Prussia at Hanover. For
this and later references I have amplified Vignerte's particulars with
the aid of Blaze de Bury's articles, which appeared first in the _Revue
des Deux Mondes_ and were collected into one volume, the "_Episode de
l'Histoire du Hanovre, Les Königsmark_," in 1855.]

[Footnote 3: Blaze de Bury: "_Episode de l'Histoire du Hanovre_." Notes
and evidence, p. 378.]

[Footnote 4: A duplicate in manuscript of this confession, entitled
"_Funeral Oration of Countess C. E. von Platen_," may be seen in the
archives of Vienna.]




V


_PETERMANN'S MITTHEILUNGEN_ is the most exhaustive. And also it must be
confessed the best, geographical work in the world. Our _Annales de
Géographie_ is only a feeble reflection of it. The Russians have an
excellent geographer, Woïkow. We have Vidal de la Blache, whose preface
to Lavisse's _Histoire de France_ is a masterpiece. But these are only
fragments and do not cover the whole ground. The astonishing feature of
_Petermann's Mittheilungen_ is its universality. My tutors at the
Sorbonne--I won't mention names as it would hardly be kind to them at
the present moment--have told me hundreds of times that no serious
geographical work could be attempted without the assistance of this
powerful machine.

I will not exaggerate either the scope or value of the lessons I gave my
pupil by having you imagine that I never prepared _one_ without
consulting the _Mittheilungen_. But I can assure you that whenever it
was necessary to emphasize some particular point I never failed to
fortify myself by reference to the great work.

Accordingly I had recourse to it when occasion arose to instruct Duke
Joachim on a question which was indeed a topic of the hour--the question
of the Cameroons and the recent German acquisitions in the Congo. It was
just two years since the Cambon-Kiderlen-Wächter conversations had
resulted in an agreement which gave Germany the famous "Duck's bill" and
Togoland. It, therefore, seemed to me a natural proceeding to dwell at
some length on the region which had been the cause of the Kaiser's
famous bang on the diplomatic table.

I shall never forget that day--Monday, March 2nd--nearly eight months
ago now.

I first ran through the Table of Contents of the _Mittheilungen_ in
order to look up the references and authorship of the six articles on
the Cameroons and the Congo. The second I came across was the work of
Professor Heidschütz, of Berlin University, describing the means of
access (natural and artificial) to this territory.

I carried the appropriate volume to the library table and began to make
some notes. As I was opening the book at the page of the article I
wanted, a piece of paper fell out. It was a sheet, folded in four and
already yellow with age, and the writing on it was large, thick and
free. It was German in Latin characters. No signature. Even without that
writing to help me I had immediately guessed what was its subject and
who had written it.

It contained the complete plan of a journey in one of the remotest parts
of the Congo, along the famous, or, rather, notorious, river Sangha. The
routes were carefully drawn up, with the assistance of the information
given in Professor Heidschütz's article, which, as I expected, was the
very last word on these regions. All practicable tracks, fords, and
resources available to the explorer of the country--from the moment he
left Libreville to the time of his return there--were noted. Each halt
was marked: Ouesso, two days--French post, water, porters: Manna, one
day--porters: Gléglé, on the N'Sagha, canoes, etc.

A fierce joy possessed me. Fate had delivered up to me the Grand Duke
Rudolph's own plan, in his own hand, for his scientific journey in the
very region where he was to meet with his death. Mine was not, I
realized, the triumph of the historian at the discovery of a document
throwing interesting light on German designs in the Congo, a document in
itself proof positive, in view of the rank and personality of the
explorer, that the Agadir _coup_ was premeditated. What cared I for
dryasdust History at that moment? In a flash I realized that pique had
been the motive for all my labours since that famous occasion when the
Grand Duchess had insulted me before the whole world!

If you would know the nature of the emotions that convulsed me as I
scrutinized the precious document I must tell you how my imagination had
been at work since that date. I had tried in vain to hate the Grand
Duchess. I could not do so. The effort only had the effect of sharpening
my desire to approach her, claim her notice, convince her that my end in
life was to devote myself to her service.

Devote myself! Good God, what on earth could have led me to think that
this dazzling, distant goddess might need my humble devotion?...

It was here, my friend, that my imagination led me on. To tell the truth
it certainly had something to build upon. You don't suppose that during
my long, lonely nights I had forgotten the confidences of a man of
Professor Thierry's standing? Quite the reverse. What wealth of meaning
had I not read into them? In a vague way I felt myself in an atmosphere
of mystery. I felt, just as I feel you now at my side in the dark, that
some tragedy was at the bottom of the presentiments of evil that flooded
my mind from time to time. My work and the nights devoted to the tragic
story of Königsmark had only aggravated my apprehension. All moonshine,
you will say; the diseased imaginings of a brain excited by work in
solitude, and, perhaps, a stronger emotion. You might have some reason
for thinking so if events had not abundantly justified my excitement.

Whatever the cause, my friend, even before I discovered the Grand Duke's
plan I had pieced together a story which satisfied my notions. I
imagined the Grand Duke Frederick-Augustus, correct and kind as he
always was towards me, as the executioner of his wife, that adorable
Grand Duchess. You see beauty made me fundamentally unjust. It made me
attribute imaginary wickedness to the man who, obviously, had many
virtues and was, in any case, the author of my present prosperity, while
I raised a monument in my mind to the woman who had once held me up to
public scorn and subsequently seemed to ignore my existence whenever I
had been thrown in her way. In my lucid moments I would reflect that
there was little of the martyr about the cold, haughty creature who
spent her nights listening to her Melusine's violin and her days on
horseback, hunting with her miserable red Hussar! That Hagen.... Wasn't
it plain as a pikestaff that it was the Grand Duke who deserved pity and
affection!... I should never have had his patience!

Useless sedatives. Vain strivings to forget. A moment later, back among
my fantastic imaginings I pictured Aurora of Lautenburg turning to her
fiery mount, hunting, music--anything to assuage her grief at the loss
of her first husband, that handsome, gallant husband who had loved her,
whom she still loved, no doubt.... And the jealousy born of these
reveries made me cherish them all the more.

Many conversations had failed to convince me of heir lack of substance.
It was useless for Frau von Wendel, with her sullen hatred of the Grand
Duchess, to sigh out tales of poor, dear Grand Duke Rudolph, who had
been so unhappy. I ruthlessly cleared everything from my path that
seemed to threaten the integrity of my fantastic fabrications.

You can call me a lunatic. But assuming I was one, you can imagine the
frenzy with which I put back the volume of the _Mittheilungen_, thrust
my precious sheet into my case and went up to my room.

Open, Sesame! I had now in my possession the mysterious key which would
open the way to the Grand Duchess's presence, and enable me to compel
her regard. "When she sees these lines," I thought, "in the handwriting
of a beloved husband, she will know that he who brings them to light and
gives them to her does not deserve the unworthy indifference she shows
him. Perhaps she will ask my pardon. Then I shall have compelling words
to stay the flow of regrets on those fair lips. She will only wonder the
more at her own past behaviour."

Twice I attempted to write a letter to accompany the document, and twice
I threw it into the fire. The first did not seem respectful enough. The
second was too full of the importance of my discovery. Eventually I hit
upon the simplest possible form of words:


MADAM,

By pure chance I have discovered a document which cannot fail to concern
your Highness. Permit me to enclose it with this note, in witness of
your humble servant's respectful devotion.


I had thought of entrusting my missive, with a couple of words of
explanation, to Fräulein von Graffenfried, who had never ceased to show
me a marked regard which was very flattering. But I was doomed to
disappointment, as Melusine had just gone out into Lautenburg, so I had
to be content with an old half-witted Russian waiting-woman. The ancient
dame took it, not without suspicion, and went off mumbling something
unintelligible.

I went back to my room at once and there my excitement oozed away. In
fact, I was soon practically taking myself to task for my action. What
purpose would it serve? Why was I mixing myself up in the affair? I
think I almost wished the old Russian even sillier than she seemed so
that she might lose my letter.

A step sounded in the corridor and there was a knock at the door. Ludwig
entered.

"Excuse me, Herr Professor. The Herr Professor has been sent for."

Stepping aside he ushered in a lackey. I thought I should collapse when
I saw the blue and gold livery of the Grand Duchess.

"Will the Herr Professor kindly come with me?" said the man.

Stunned by the almost immediate effect of my action, I followed him,
even forgetting my hat. We cut across the park. Where was he taking me?
We reached and descended the slopes of the English garden. Soon we were
among the willows by the Melna, flushed with the ruddy glow of dying
day.

A shot rang out from a clump of chestnut trees, and I thought I heard a
rustle id the branches as if a bird were falling.

"Will the Herr Professor please step this way?"

I was now in a kind of arbour. The Grand Duchess was standing with her
gun still smoking in her hand.

"Excuse me, monsieur. I am having a little thrush shooting," was all she
said.

And she nodded to her lackey to leave us.