German Court functions have all the incomparable splendour that the
magnificent imperial uniforms give them. I was almost blinded by the
amazing display of blue, red and black tunics, bedecked with fur and
sparkling with gold.

The hedge of Lautenburg Hussars presented swords.

The Grand Duchess Aurora came first on the arm of the King of
Würtemberg.

A draped gown of dark green velvet, amazingly _décolleté_, left one
shoulder absolutely bare. Behind her trailed her long train, with a
wonderful design in silver embroidery.

On her right hand she had a single diamond set in platinum, on the left
an emerald set in a circle of brilliants.

I had not seen her hair in the morning, but now I beheld that cloud of
tawny gold, fashioned in great coils round her head, beneath a gold-lace
cap surmounted by a strange barbaric tiara of emeralds.

For one second her eyes met mine. I had an intuition that what she read
there did not displease her. I was probably the only human being in that
etiquette-ridden concourse who dared gaze thus frankly at that woman.

Do you remember Gustave Moreau's _Fée aux Griffons_? You will recall
the fantastic creature in a vivid blue landscape--that colour is less
intense than the green of Aurora of Lautenburg's eyes. The picture will
give you a dim idea of the Grand Duchess.

There was the same ethereal atmosphere, the same haunting mystery of
outline. Melusine, exquisite, even unnerving as she was, seemed almost
commonplace beside that Titania.

What Moreau's picture does not explain is the blending of ingenuousness
and resolution which is the whole charm of this princess. She has
something of the northern Creole, at once listless and impulsive, and
again something of snow in sunshine, sparkling and hard on the surface,
soft in substance.

Her waist, perhaps a little too slender, is rather high. You _knew_ how
delicately lovely her waist would have been if she had cared to lace it
in, for the velvet gown moulded the form in a way that is only possible
when there is direct contact with the flesh beneath. The thought that
that form could emerge from its sheath like a cold, pure lily sent the
blood surging to one's brain.

Among all those faces, on which wine had already begun to leave its
purple traces, that pale statue, half unrobed, was miraculously white
and pure. Her lips were rouged, her eyes darkened, and, to tell the
truth, her nails were unnaturally pink. But you felt she made light of
these adventitious aids on which others rely for beauty. You could
imagine her smiling at resorting to them. She only uses them to show
that she can just as well dispense with them.

The smile which hovered on her pale face was set, artificial. A slave to
etiquette, she wore the appropriate official mien. Any one who watched
her closely could the better observe an occasional emotion, dead at
birth, which for a brief moment disturbed the grave, self-imposed mask.
I knew that such an emotion must focus as many impulses as the colours
in a prism. I felt that if I ever came to know Her Highness better, I
should perhaps succeed in analysing them; but in the meantime that
glimpse revealed two elements with unfailing certainty--irony and ennui.

Was this gentle, listless creature, indeed, the Amazon of the morning? I
preferred her then. The bare, white shoulder hurt me, and I wanted a
heavy ermine cloak to throw over it. There were a dozen around her. Oh!
I knew that she was their sovereign, and that their glances, in her
presence, were little more than mechanical. But if they had not thought
themselves observed what reserve would they have shown?

And who, in Heaven's name, is that little red Hussar, lurking down there
behind the flowers and casting covetous glances at that fair
shoulder?... Hence, clown! Go back to your tame, fat German women, with
their bulging arms and diabolo figures. She is not of your race. She is
not for you, lout! I hate you, yet I envy you. I envy your scarlet
tunic, your yellow facings, your gold tinsel, your lieutenant's rank in
the 7th Hussars, which, when all else fails, is a bond between you and
your soul-stirring Colonel. I could then approach her and proffer, as
you do now, my compliments on the display of the morning.

With her face almost buried in the bouquet of irises she held to her
nostrils, she thanked, in a low voice, the officers who congratulated
her.

"Oh, no! You exaggerate. Taras-Bulba deserves all the praise. I'm always
amazed at the way you keep up with him on your chargers. Compared with
him the animals here are like brewers' horses."

Was I wrong, or could she really if she had wished have spoken German
with less of a foreign accent?

Behind a screen of plants on the left the band of the 182nd struck up a
waltz. The ball began.

"We are keeping out the dancers, gentlemen. Go and find your partners.
They will be getting angry with me. Please take me to my place, Count,"
she said, taking General von Eichhorn's arm.

These Germans, male and female, waltzed with that grave, concentrated
resolution that characterizes them. Spurs clinked merrily, and the
beautiful imperial colours mingled under the lights into one fascinating
kaleidoscope.

"Monsieur Vignerte, you are not dancing!"

"It is only because I'm such a poor performer, Fräulein. Besides, a
black coat cuts a poor figure among all these uniforms."

"That's no reason," replied Melusine. "Why, there's good Frau von Wendel
who will go very well with your clothes. You must ask her."

"If I _must_ dance, I should prefer it to be with you."

"I'm afraid I haven't time. My business is to wander round and look
after the wallflowers and more bashful dancers. Let me take your arm.
You can accompany me."

A pretty woman on my arm gave me the confidence I lacked.

"Fräulein von Graffenfried! Monsieur Vignerte!" The voice of Marçais.

The last word in elegance, he was sitting near the Grand Duchess. Great
Heavens! He beckoned to me to go up.

"Can't we ever get hold of you?" he said, laughing. "Here, monsieur."

He presented me to the Grand Duchess.

"It was partly for your sake, Madame, that I brought Monsieur Vignerte
here. But you seem in no hurry to use the gifts we offer."

She replied casually:

"I? My wish is nothing better than to know Monsieur Vignerte. I am told
he is charming. You must forgive me, monsieur, if I say 'I am told.' I
have hitherto had no chance of judging for myself. You work very hard, I
understand."

The same words as Melusine had used. Oh, the shame of it! Was I _always_
to wear the pedant's gown? Was I always to be the man who "worked very
hard," I, whose nights were passed in dreams of a voluptuousness that
none suspected?

I was going to reply. I think I was going to tell that haughty creature
the plain truth. But she rose.

"Excuse me! I must dance--at any rate, once! Herr von Hagen," she
called.

The little red Hussar was there. He came forward, humble but radiant. I
knew a day would come when I should box his ears!

A space had been cleared on the floor. The Grand Duchess Aurora's dance
seemed to be a maëlstrom from which the dancers turned aside lest they
be drawn in. They waltzed at first the slow German waltz in three time.
Then the measure quickened, changing to two beats in the bar. It was no
longer even the boston, but a wild, harmonious whirling.

A murmur of admiration went up. The Grand Duke Frederick-Augustus looked
on with a smile which was almost a smile of triumph.

It was not Hagen, elegant and accomplished though he was, who set the
pace, but the tall green and white form. Round and round she went,
listless as ever. Hagen let himself be carried along. An ecstatic flush
suffused his fair, boyish face. He was as clay in the hands of his
Sovereign. Red, green, red, green, then a blur. The complementary
colours appeared. They turned, turned, turned...

In France we should have clapped.

She went back to her place a drooping lily. As she adjusted her right
shoulder-strap, she let fall the lovely bouquet of purple iris which she
had been carrying. I rushed forward and picked it up.

"Thank you, monsieur," she said casually. Then, this time voluntarily,
she dropped them again.

Good Lord! they were already faded.