"Unpile Arms!"

Of its own motion and by that force of habit which makes the word of
command superfluous, the dark mass of the company rose and formed fours
to the right.

The darkness was falling, cold and cruel, slashed with long liquid
streaks. It had been raining all day. In the middle of the clearing a
grey-green sky looked up at us from shadowy pools.

An order rang out: "Quick March!" The little body moved off. I was at
the head. At the edge of the wood was a country-house, some
eighteenth-century fantasy; two or three shells had been enough to
demolish the wings. The chandeliers of the big ground-floor room,
multiplied in its mirrors and sparkling through its tall windows,
enhanced the sinister blackness of the falling October night.

Five or six shadowy forms in long cloaks stood out against this
background of light.

"What Company?"

"The 24th of the 218th Regiment, sir."

"Are you taking over the Blanc-Sablon trenches?"

"Yes, sir."

"Good. When you've got your men installed, go for your orders to
battalion headquarters. Your C.O. has them. Good luck!"

"Thank you, sir."

In the darkness, like a group of fantastic hunch-backs, the men stood
round, leaning on their sticks and arching their backs under the amazing
weight of their packs, crammed with miscellaneous paraphernalia. For the
trenches were a desert island. How could you tell what you might want
there? So the men took down everything they could carry.

They maintained a grave, morose silence, the usual silence that marked
the occupation of a new sector. Besides, Blanc-Sablon had a bad
reputation. The enemy's trenches were some way off--three or four
hundred yards--it is true, but the nature of the ground was such that
the only cover consisted of a few wretched dug-outs which were always
collapsing and indeed, only kept in existence at all by great baulks of
timber. Further, the place was wooded and cut by ravines where you could
not see fifty yards ahead of you. And nothing in war is so nerve-racking
as the mystery of the invisible.

A voice--"Any chance of lights?"

"Lights" meant cards. Card-playing was permitted when the dug-outs were
deep enough and there was a good thick tarpaulin to cover the entrance.

Another muttered:

--"How long are we going for?"

A question that remained unanswered. In October, 1914, the war had not
yet become an affair of administration, with a rota of reliefs,
leave.... You never knew how long you would stay in bad trenches which
you could not make up your mind to improve. It was not worth while. You
might have been there a month already, but you would be certain to be
moved off before the end of the week.

I felt my way with my stick down the forest path, helped by three feet
of light from the puny lantern which a soldier hid under his cloak. It
is a trying experience to lead men by unfamiliar paths through a forest
at night. Behind you the men, and even the officers, follow like sheep,
their one concern being to avoid knocking their noses against the pack
of the man in front--their sole horizon--at some sudden stop. The others
could think of reliefs, their cards, their homes, anything.... But I was
preoccupied solely with the necessity of keeping my sightless column on
the right track.

Nothing could be heard but the muffled tramping which wound along
indefinitely behind me. The trees made a dark dome above our heads.
Every now and then we looked up as we came to a clearing, but the sky
was as dark as the vault of foliage.

"Where is Lieutenant Vignerte?"

"At the head, sir."

A hand was placed on my shoulder. It was Vignerte's.

Since our Captain left us after Craonne to command a battalion of
another regiment, Raoul Vignerte, senior to me in the service, had been
in command of the company. He was a man of twenty-five, slight, with a
splendid dark head. Two months of war had done more than ten years of
peace could have done to draw us together. We did now know each other
before August, 1914, yet we had common memories of those bygone days. I
came from Béarn, he from Landes. I had taken German at the Sorbonne.
He, two years later, had taken history. Alternately jovial and absorbed,
he was always a wonderful company commander. Occasionally the men found
him a trifle distant, irresponsible, perhaps, but they liked his calm,
soldierly bearing, his never-failing interest in their welfare. Vignerte
did not sleep with the men, as I did. But they knew that if he kept his
dug-out to himself it was invariably the most dilapidated, straw-less,
and exposed he could find.

As far as I was concerned, he left nothing undone to make me forget
that, though he was two years younger than myself, he was my superior
officer. On my side, glad though I was to have such a comrade to obey, I
was even more glad to escape all the responsibilities of a company
commander. Strength-returns, discussions with the sergeant-major and the
quartermaster, company accounts (though these are reduced to a minimum
in the field), would never have been much to my liking. Vignerte, who
had not slept one hour a night during the retreat, who had been the last
to leave Guise in flames and the first to enter Ville-aux-Bois in ruins,
this same Vignerte dealt with the horrible mass of detail with
methodical vigour. Every now and then when I saw this charming
intellectual wholly absorbed in such sordid duties, I would think: What
distraction is he seeking? From what black thoughts is he fleeing?...
Then, as if fearing detection, he would come to me with some joke and
that day the regiment would know no one more merry and careless.

This evening he was in his dark mood. And why not, with the
responsibility of introducing two hundred and fifty men to a new sector?
Besides, he might have orders of which I did not yet know.

"Where are we?" he asked.

"Ten minutes more to battalion headquarters," I replied. And, lowering
my voice, I queried: "Any news?"

"I believe one company of the battalion is to carry out some operation.
But it's not our turn. Besides, I'm going to remain at headquarters. You
can carry out the relief without me. I shall come down with the orders
a quarter of an hour afterwards."

Blanc-Sablon was indeed a lugubrious spot. On one wall of a ravine rose
its shell-riven dwarf forest, with wooded horns and great caves of
shadow, while away in front a road, barricaded with tree-trunks,
stretched to the village, a few hundred yards off, occupied by the
enemy.

The men, hitherto silent, could no longer restrain a hasty comment.

"Good Lord! What a show! Here's a pretty place for you! We always strike
a hole like this!"

"Silence!"

In some respects taking over is not unlike the figure of a cotillon. The
Company-Commander, each section officer, corporal and man must
immediately seek out his opposite number, the company-commander, section
officer, corporal or man whose place he has to take.

It was all over in five minutes, soundlessly, of course, or hostile
artillery would soon have had this human mass, half of it without cover
of any kind, under fire and reduced to pulp.

Silence, comparatively easy to obtain from the incoming party, was
nothing like so easy to exact from the departing host. The pleasant
prospects of approaching sleep under cover and a few days' "rest" behind
the lines loosened their tongues. They could not resist a few words of
advice to their successors:

"I'd advise you to keep clear of that loophole. There's a gent over
there who doesn't love me. I have had three pots at him today. If he
isn't dead he will be wanting his turn. And then ..."

--"SILENCE!"

Truly a vile sector--four, five small posts to be manned, twelve
sentries to be found, not to mention patrols. Not much chance of sleep
for my poor fellows here.

"Good-bye."

"Good-bye. Thanks for your help."

It was the officer of the out-going company who was moving off. The
sound died away in the woods.

It was high time. The moon was already up.

Swathed in pale yellow mist, she swam mournfully through a sea of grey
flakes. She had turned her lamp on the desolate white countryside, the
shattered tree-stumps, and clayey wastes. The men vanished into their
shelters. The sentries kept their rifles down lest the bayonet should
catch the light. Behind us a number of small, flat mounds, with pathetic
wooden railings, loomed into view.

These were the graves.

The men had not noticed them. All the better. It was better they should
not see them until next morning--by daylight, when they would have got
used to the place and our little world would be feeling the
comparatively enlivening influence of the sun.