At eight o'clock Pastor Silbermann, at the _Tempel_ in the Siegstrasse,
and Monsignor Kreppel in the Cathedral, celebrated the offices of the
respective cults, to which the soldiers of the Catholic and Reformed
confessions were conducted in detachments. Then at ten o'clock came the
review.

The weather favoured the 7th Lautenburg Hussars. The sun shone bright
and cold. From the square you could see the black leaves, gripped by the
gentle westerly breeze, fall slowly from the castle trees into the
Melna. I have said before that from my room I could not see the
parade-ground where the review was to be held. But rising at daybreak I
was in time to watch the 182nd Prussian Infantry Regiment, of which two
companies had been told off for general police duties, crossing the
Königsplatz en route to its post. The immense throng filled my heart
with the joy of those who know that their seats are reserved.

At seven o'clock I was ready, although I had quite decided not to turn
out until much later, certainly not before the stands were half full. I
picked up some book and tried to read it, not stopping to analyse the
reasons for my growing excitement.

At nine o'clock the noise below became so marked and insistent that I
thought I could go down without looking absurd. How small and
insignificant I felt crossing the great square, the emptiness of which
was emphasized by the enormous crowd gathered round it, only kept within
bounds by a cordon of infantry with fixed bayonets. The stands were
three-quarters full when I arrived, and I should have had considerable
difficulty in finding my place if I hadn't seen a hat frantically waved
to attract my attention. It was Count de Marçais.

"You're next to me," said the obliging diplomat. "All the better. We can
chat while we're waiting."

Glad of an opportunity of impressing me, he told me the names of the
distinguished individuals around us: Count Bela, the Austro-Hungarian
Minister, almost swallowed up in furs and an astrakhan cap with a silver
aigrette; M. Nekludoff, the Russian Minister, in a very unassuming
frock-coat; Monsignor Kreppel, with his heavy gold cross on a purple
sash, and Rector Etlicher, of Kiel Academy.

Suddenly I pressed his arm. A most attractive young woman had just taken
her place in the first row of the stand immediately in front of us. She
might have been twenty or twenty-five. Dark, extremely smooth-skinned
and languid in her movements, she was wearing a long blue coat and skirt
edged with skunk. One of her arms hanging loosely by her side, ended in
one of those huge muffs so fashionable at that time. A toque of skunk
framed the heavy black coils of her hair.

She noticed Marçais and greeted him with a languid bow.

"Who is she?" I murmured.

"What," he said ecstatically. "You mean to say you don't know the Maid
of Honour, the Grand Duchess's inseparable confidante, Fräulein
Melusine von Graffenfried? What on earth have you been doing with your
time since you came?"

"What a beauty she is!" I said.

"She's a beauty all right! You're not the first to make _that_
discovery. But you'd better realize, my boy," he added, with a curious
sly glance, "that there's nothing doing. Besides, you'll forget her
existence when the Grand Duchess arrives. Meanwhile she'll do, won't
she ..."

Translating words into deeds he touched our beautiful neighbour gently
on the shoulder.

"Fräulein von Graffenfried, there are some things in the castle we
don't value as we should. Here is one of its residents, who has
not yet been presented to you and now solicits that honour. My
fellow-countryman, Monsieur Raoul Vignerte, tutor to His Highness Duke
Joachim."

The charming young woman turned round and gave me an angelic glance,
which, for some reason or other, reduced me to extreme confusion.

"Thank you, dear Count, for giving me an opportunity of knowing Monsieur
Vignerte otherwise than by reputation. Monsieur, let me hope we shall
meet again without having to wait for so special an occasion. But I'm
told you work so hard."

It was not the first time I was to learn how much more tactful
distinguished imbeciles are than people of reputed intelligence. Count
de Marçais gave me further proof of this when he answered for me:

"No offence meant, dear friend, but perhaps it is easier to gain
admittance to the castle library than to your affections!"

Melusine's eyelids quivered imperceptibly.

"No offence taken, I assure you," she rejoined, smiling. "Monsieur
Vignerte is a true scholar, and will tell you that the very best
libraries are those to which admission is most difficult. Isn't that so,
Herr Beck?" She added, turning to the old savant, who had just arrived
and was lost in astonishment at the troops concentrated at the two ends
of the parade-ground.

I admired the surpassing skill with which she turned a conversation
verging on delicate ground.

"You are unquestionably right, Fräulein," my old colleague hastened to
reply, with the utter ingenuousness of the man of learning. "Monsieur
Vignerte knows only too well that the whole library, manuscripts
included, is at his disposal."

"Hush!" said Fräulein von Graffenfried, turning round. "Here's the
King."

A group of horsemen bad just appeared opposite us, on the other side of
the square, in the courtyard of the castle. There was immediately a
volley of sharp commands. Cavalry and infantry stiffened to attention.
With a noise like sheets of metal tearing, bayonets were fixed to the
muzzles of rifles. Three thousand swords flashed out, three thousand
tongues of lightning.

Trumpets and fifes began a slow march, a kind of summons to arms, very
sharp and strident, but quite in keeping with the keen December morning.
When it stopped, there burst out one wild universal cheer, solid,
raucous and prolonged, like the roll of a wave which never breaks.

The little group of horsemen advanced at the trot in the huge empty
square. The King of Würtemberg, in field-marshal's uniform, was in
front on a black horse. On his right was the Grand Duke
Frederick-Augustus, in general's uniform, very plain. On his left
General von Eichhorn displayed all the glories of the Great General
Staff. Close by was young Duke Joachim, looking very well in the blue
tunic of a lieutenant in the Detmold Dragoons.

Behind them came a display of the finest uniforms in the German Army: a
colossal officer of the White Cuirassiers; an officer of the Guard
Artillery in black and gold with crimson facings; grey Hussars, a green
Uhlan.

"Where's the Grand Duchess?" I murmured to Marçais.

"What! You call yourself an officer of the Reserve! Where do you expect
to find the colonel at a review? At the head of his regiment, of course.
Look, there's Colonel von Mudra of the 182nd. The review begins with his
regiment. He's the man just in front of the Staff. He will drop back
into line when his unit has been inspected."

At a gallop the Royal group passed between the companies of the
regiment, which smartly opened out for the manœuvre. The white and
black standards were lowered at their passage. Then came a sharp order
and the ranks closed up. It was the turn of the Detmold Dragoons.

Colonel von Becker, slim and straight, a fine figure in his blue tunic,
white gauntlets and black-spiked helmet with its silver eagle, rode up
to the King, whom he saluted with a broad sweep of his sabre, presenting
to him his superb regiment, a host of giants on motionless giant steeds.
This solid mass gave me such an impression of overwhelming force that I
involuntarily pressed Marçais' hand.

"H'm!" he murmured. "Our Cuirassiers and Spahis will have their work cut
out if it ever comes."

An order, passed down by the commanding officers, captains and
lieutenants, and the earth trembled beneath the hoofs of the 11th
Detmold Dragoons moving off by the right, behind the 182nd Infantry, to
take its place for the march past.

It was Marçais' turn to press my arm.

"Look!" he said.

In front of us, in the first row, Fräulein Melusine von Graffenfried
was leaning over the rail with a smile on her lips. Two riders were
advancing towards the King. One was little Hagen, rather pale and
plainly fall of himself. He was riding eight or ten paces behind the
Colonel of the Lautenburg Hussars.

To tell the truth, I could not clearly distinguish the features of the
Grand Duchess Aurora. I could only see the outline of her slight form.

She was walking a little horse gorgeously caparisoned. Above her riding
skirt was the tunic of the Lautenburg Hussars, red with orange facings.
Her black kolbach reared its long gold cockade above her head.

She also presented arms to the King of Würtemberg, who, urging his
horse forward, bowed over her hand and kissed it. A tremendous cheer
went up from the crowd:

"_Hoch_ for the Grand Duchess! _Hoch_ for the King! _Hoch_ for the
Kaiser!"

Marçais touched Melusine gently on the arm.

"The Grand Duchess is a very placid Amazon today," he said.

"Do you think so?" replied the girl, shrugging her shoulders but not
turning round. "She had two bottles of 'Extra Dry' put in Taras-Bulba's
oats this morning. That explains everything."

"Taras-Bulba! Is that her horse?" I asked.

"Yes, a fearful little brute, hairy as a mat, you can see. She brought
him from the marshes of the Volga. He's ugly, vicious and obstinate.
She's absolutely the only person who can ride him. He tries to bite the
groom's face off, but she can do what she likes with him."

"Sh!" said Melusine. "Look!"

The Hussars were advancing at full trot to take their places behind the
Dragoons, who were drawn up behind the infantry.

With their backs to the stand and ourselves, the King of Würtemberg and
General von Eichhorn faced the Grand Duke Frederick-Augustus and Duke
Joachim, who, at the other end of the parade-ground, presented the
troops marching past. I have no bias in favour of the Prussian
goose-step, but I assure you that though we may mock at it in France, it
is remarkably appropriate to German military atmosphere.

The 182nd marched past in line of columns of companies. You could have
heard a pin drop. The six field artillery batteries followed at a
gallop, the copper bobs on their black helmets sparkling in the sun.
Then, by squads and keeping faultless alignment, the Detmold Dragoons
advanced, followed at a distance of two hundred yards or so by the
Lautenburg Hussars.

The Grand Duchess was between the two regiments. Little Hagen, stiller
than ever, looked in the seventh heaven. A feeling of mute hatred of the
man rose within me.

The march past was over. Whilst the Grand Duke Frederick-Augustus and
Duke Joachim came over to join the King of Würtemberg and General von
Eichhorn in front of the stand, the two calvary regiments massed for the
final charge at the place the princes had just left.

"Look!" said Marçais to me. "You are going to see the Cossack style."

On the right was the blue mass, on the left the red, smaller. Twenty
paces in front of them two riders, almost side by side. Colonel von
Becker's great bay snorted. Taras-Bulba, quivering with suppressed
excitement, did not move.

Leaning forward, Melusine looked on, her gaze at once roving and rapt.

Two sabres flashed and immediately, with a deafening roar, the great
wave broke.

And now one horse was ahead--Taras-Bulba. How long would it last?
Possibly ten seconds, and then the wave, three thousand horses and three
thousand riders, stopped dead before the stands amid a rattle of oaths
and the jingling of stirrups. The earth seemed to open.

I shall never forget the sight. On the right Becker, leaning back in his
saddle, his horse rearing, saluted the sovereigns with his sword. On the
left was Taras-Bulba pawing the air.

Five or six yards away from me the Grand Duchess sat her prancing horse.
No pink glow on her pale face spoke of that breathless rush. Her huge
black kolbach entirely hid her hair. Her green eyes shone gloriously. A
Murat among Amazons, she held her sword raised above her head.

She smiled to us.

At that same moment a cry of admiring wonder broke from three throats.
Melusine von Graffenfried, Marçais and I had the glory of leading a
frantic burst of cheering.

Then Taras-Bulba fell back on his fore feet. With one hand Aurora von
Lautenburg patted his shaggy mane, while she extended the other to King
Albert, who kissed it again.