"When we got back to Russia, we found another letter from the Czar,
telling Papa that the Kaiser's arrival at St. Petersburg was fixed for
May 15th, so that we ought to make our arrangements at once.

"I could give you no idea of the gorgeous way in which he fitted out his
brigade. The Astrakhan Cossacks wear the Armenian high black cap,
something like a sugar-loaf, red coats edged with fur, and yellow
bandoliers. The Aral Cossacks have sky-blue coats, white bandoliers, and
wear the round Kalmuck busby, two feet in diameter, from which they
derive their nickname of 'Bigheads.' They carry the curved sabre, on
which the Aral Cossacks, who are Mohammedans, engrave verses of the
Khoran, a whip with lead balls, and a long lance.

"Papa had all the woollen facings replaced by others of gold and silver.
He reviewed his squadrons one day towards the end of April when the
early crocus was peeping shyly forth. There was only a pale yellow sun,
but it was quite enough to make those superb warriors look so
magnificent that we could easily imagine what they would be like in the
brilliant May sunshine at Tzarskoïe-Selo.

"There was nearly a catastrophe the day they left for Petersburg. You
must remember that these simple folk, who fear neither man nor
whirlwind, spirits of marsh nor spirits of flood, stand in mortal terror
of railways. Their horses share that emotion. Half of them had been
bundled in when they suddenly caught sight of the squat little engine,
puffing and blowing, in the middle of the steppe. Not one of them would
have moved if the priest had not turned up and blessed this strange
animal.

"We got them off at last in twelve trains, which took twelve days to
cross Great Russia. We ourselves were travelling by the express, so we
only had to leave the palace a week later. The Czar had a special
Pullman car put at our disposal. We invited the two colonels and the six
majors to join us. The priest was with Mlle. Jauffre and Kunin, Papa's
favourite Cossack. I had put them in charge of my wardrobe.

"Petersburg is a splendid city, with barracks, churches and fine
gardens. You can see that the man who laid it out had a definite scheme
in mind. We were housed royally at the Winter Palace and had a private
audience of the Czar the night we arrived. 'Hello! so this is the little
niece,' he said, and I could see he thought me pretty. The Czarina
kissed me and called the Grand Duchesses, my cousins, in order to
introduce us. I gave Olga and Tatiana each a necklace of Caucasian
rubies, which seemed to have a diamond tear inside, and for the little
girls there were necklaces of pink pearls. Papa had brought the
Czarevitch an aigrette buckle, made out of one huge diamond, for his
kolbach, and a little Cossack sword with the hilt set in sapphires and
brilliants.

"Two days later all the bells of the capital announced the arrival of
the Kaiser. The Czar, the Czarevitch and the Grand Dukes went to
Kronstadt to meet him.

"Since then I have seen so many royal entries into various cities that
the memory of this particular occasion has gradually faded entirely from
my mind. But that doesn't matter. It was a magnificent spectacle.

"I witnessed the arrival at the palace from my balcony. The White
Cuirassiers, with the Grand Dukes, rode up to the gates. The honours
were rendered by the Preobrajensky guards. All this time Papa's Cossacks
were installed in two barracks and forbidden to leave them. This annoyed
me at first until I learned, as I soon did, that it was because they
were the finest in all the Russias and the Czar was reserving them
jealously for the grand finale.

"Under the soft, fleecy sky of Bothnia the breastplates and sabres
sparkled with blue and gold.

"The Kaiser was with the Czar, the Czarevitch and the Crown Prince in
the first carriage. He was wearing the uniform of a colonel of the
Russian Cuirassiers, with the golden eagle on his silver helmet. He
saluted frequently and wore a happy smile. Frederick William was wearing
the uniform of the Black Hussars.

"The Empress and the Czarina came next, with a host of German princes
and generals.

"The introductions seemed as if they would never come to an end. I had
my little success. 'So this is the little niece,' said the Kaiser,
taking my hand and leading me to the Empress. The motherly old hen
kissed me from beneath her lace and ostrich plumes, and told me how much
she loved my poor Mamma. I was still the 'little niece' to them all.
Meanwhile Frederick William and Adalbert did stare, I can tell you!
Adalbert is a fine young man, but he looks pig-headed and sly. I prefer
the Crown Prince, who looks full of mischief. I can tell you Germany
won't be dull when he succeeds his father.

"I spent the whole afternoon getting ready for the banquet in the
evening. I was so afraid I shouldn't make an impression that I got quite
irritable and would have quarrelled with Mlle. Jauffre for two pins. It
was almost as if I had a presentiment of all the evils that were to come
upon me as a result of that cursed evening.

"You can have no idea what a gorgeous affair a fête at the Peterhof is.
The Kaiser had donned another uniform, even more striking than the
first. But you should have seen his face when he saw Papa's!

"His uniform was not to be compared to that of the Tumene Prince. The
Empress's diamonds looked like the tawdry gewgaws of a suburban housewife
by the side of the brilliants on the chain which secured his scarlet
cloak at the left shoulder.

"When I went in I saw the Czar repress his astonishment. For one moment
I thought I must be too _décolleté_. Then this fear vanished as I
realized the impression I was making. You must remember I had secured
Doucet's admitted _chef d'œuvre_, a gown of sapphire velvet, made very
simply, but closely moulded to the form, and my jewellery consisted of
nothing but sapphires. Child as I was, I was already anticipating my
next day's success. 'But what will they say,' I said to myself, 'when
they see my Number 2, the red gown with nothing but rubies!'

"We danced. I was amused to see the Germans, accustomed to their slow
waltz, miss the beat of our rapid Russian waltz and put in a couple of
hops--or stand like herons--to catch up again.

"I danced with the Crown Prince. He complimented me on my dress and said
that the German Emperor was not an absolute monarch, as he'd never been
able to make his Court ladies do with less than six colours in their
gowns. I wanted to irritate him, so I replied that it was not
surprising, and that mine came from Paris. But he said I was right and
there was no place like Paris. With those priceless grimaces which are
quite his own he told me a whole heap of _risqué_ stories about Paris,
and as he took me back to my place I heard the old hen murmur in his
ear: 'Now, Fritz, behave!'

"At the same moment she beckoned to me to go and sit beside her.

"That morning I had noticed among the officers of the Kaiser's entourage
a tall Hussar in a scarlet uniform with yellow facings. He had sandy
hair and fine eyes, his blue, insistent eyes of a short-sighted man. He
had had his eyeglass fixed on me the whole time, but of course I was
careful to pretend I noticed nothing. I should have been astounded then
if any one had told me that one day I should be wearing that scarlet
uniform myself.

"'Aurora,' the Empress said, 'this is my cousin Rudolph, Grand Duke of
Lautenburg-Detmold. He wants a dance with you.'

"The red Hussar danced atrociously, though he made the most superhuman
efforts. He thought he ought to apologize, but I gave him no reply and
not even a word of thanks when the dance ended. He resumed his place
behind the Empress and wiped his eyeglass from time to time, looking
miserable enough to melt a stone.

"The next day I was delighted to hear that there was to be some
fox-hunting two days later. How thankful I was to have brought
Taras-Bulba, my wicked little Barbary horse, with me! I went to see him
at the barracks where our Cossacks were. He had behaved so outrageously
that he had been shut up by himself in a stable--the door of which he'd
nearly smashed to pieces on his way in.

"When he saw me he whinnied rapturously and soon bolted the sugar I had
brought him.

"'You've just got to show what you can do,' I said, running my hand
through his long, thick mane. 'We'll leave them all behind, won't we?'

"He nodded amiably to show he'd understood, and I went out to try on my
riding-habit.

"When I reached my room I found Papa there, looking calm but radiant. I
always loathe surprises. They are sure to be unpleasant.

"I saw that Papa didn't know how to begin, and that in itself made me
suspicious.

"'You must hurry,' I said. 'I have to dress.'

"'My daughter,' he said, 'I have something important to say to you.'

"'That is no reason why you shouldn't hurry up.'

"'My daughter, how would you like to be a Queen?'

"'Queen of what?'

"'Würtemberg.'

"We may have been brought up among savages, but I know my _Gotha_. So I
asked Papa if he wanted me to marry the King of Würtemberg, who was
then sixty-two.

"'It is not His Majesty the King of Würtemberg who has done me the
honour to ask your hand. It is His Highness the Grand Duke of
Lautenburg-Detmold.'

"Papa is a prince himself, and to hear him mouthing 'Majesties' and
'Highnesses' drove me crazy.

"'What!' I cried. 'The boiled lobster? Never!'

"'Let's be serious,' said my father.

"'_Never_,' I repeated, stamping my foot. 'Besides, I don't see the
connection between this short-sighted red-beard and the crown of
Würtemberg.'

"'It's this,' said my father magisterially. 'King Albert of Würtemberg
has no children. He is sixty-two, as you correctly observed, and a
martyr to diabetes. The Grand Duke of Lautenburg is his heir.'

"'I don't care,' I replied. 'I'd rather marry Kunin, and, besides, I
don't want to marry at all.'

"Papa began to lose his temper. He came out with the whole story.
Rudolph of Lautenburg was madly in love with me. He had spoken to the
Empress, his godmother, who had spoken to the Kaiser, who had spoken to
the Czar, who had just spoken to _him_. Hints of this kind, flattering
though they are, are virtually orders, and...

"'You consented, without waiting to ask me?' I broke in.

"'Not exactly,' he replied in some confusion, 'but, after all, what
could I do but thank him and consent ...'

"'Consent to what!'

"'Consent to--oh, something which commits you to nothing. I agreed that
the Grand Duke should be your companion at the meet the day after
tomorrow.'

"'If that's all,' I said, 'you can rely on me to make this German sorry
he ever came to Russia for an heiress.'

"'Promise me to be nice,' begged my father in alarm. 'You make me regret
I have given you so much liberty. Remember it's a question of a royal
crown. Neither more nor less.'

"A crown! To see his daughter a queen! That was all the old Kalmuck
thought about.

"That evening as I was entering the car to go to the gala performance I
was made to realize that Papa had committed me much further than he had
dared admit.

"'Here's out little fiancée,' said the Kaiser, taking my hand.

"The Empress, more the brood hen than ever, kissed me on the forehead.
It appears that this is a family mania.

"And so it went on up to the Czar, who remarked to the Kaiser, with one
of his sad smiles:

"'So you're not satisfied with flooding me with your subjects, but must
needs come to take away mine!'

"I put on my frankest smile, but cast many a sidelong glance at my red
Hussar, who didn't know what to do. I said to myself:

"'You wait a bit, my fine fellow! You'll be paid out for this the day
after tomorrow!'