She asked me to tell her the circumstances which had brought me to
Lautenburg, She had heard some of the details from Marçais, but from
the smile with which she told me this I had no difficulty in guessing
her opinion of that diplomatist's perspicacity.

It was plain that she wanted to know my story, and I met her wishes with
straightforward simplicity. Towards the end, as I felt her interested
and friendly, I could not help giving her a moving picture of the
distress our first meeting had caused me, I who had no sooner set eyes
on her than my sole idea in life had been to gain her regard.

Melusine von Graffenfried nodded approval, closing her eyes as she blew
rings from her cigarette to the ceiling.

"Please let us forget all that, Monsieur Vignerte," said the Grand
Duchess. "Give me your hand." Then, turning to Melusine, she spoke in
Russian, not knowing that I had a smattering of her native tongue.

"It's no good relying on him for my admission to the _Kirchhaus_."

Fräulein von Graffenfried replied with a shake of the head, which might
be interpreted as "Didn't I say so?"

"Melusine," said the Grand Duchess, "light the samovar."

While the girl arranged the teacups round the heavy, humming tower of
burnished copper, Aurora rose from the bed and opened a small
secretaire. She beckoned me to her.

"Do you know that writing?" she asked, holding out a letter.

I examined the paper. I had never seen the writing in question.

"It is the hand of the late Grand Duke Rudolph," she said simply.

My surprise grew to amazement. She could not restrain a smile.

"But, excuse me, madame. I don't understand. Then whose is the document
I sent you, to which I owe ..."

"Don't get excited; keep calm, Monsieur Vignerte. The paper to which you
owe my regard--nay, my friendship--was not written by my husband, the
late Grand Duke. But it is not without its value for me. It may even
have a greater value."

As she spoke she unfolded the document "I see there a name," she said.
"Sangha. Do you know where it is?"

"Yes," I answered. "I found out this morning. It is a miserable village
in the Cameroons--the last German post, ten leagues from Fort Flatters,
the first French post."

"That's the place," she added, "and you don't seem to know that it was
in that very village that the Grand Duke Rudolph died of sunstroke on
the 10th of May, 1911. He is buried there. Now you will realize my
feelings on seeing in the list of projected stages of his journey the
name of the place where he was to stay for ever."

"But whose is this list, then? Who drew it up?"

"A friend," replied the Grand Duchess, "the Grand Duke's faithful
companion. The same man who saved his life twice in the Congo. The same
who stayed with him to the end, and rendered him the last services,
though he was unable to save him from the fell malady."

"What was his name?" I asked.

"Baron Ulrich von Boose."

"Boose!" I cried. "So it was Boose!"

The Grand Duchess turned rather pale and drew herself up to her full
height. Melusine, at her feet, had stopped playing the guitar, which was
lying on the floor.

"What do you mean, monsieur?" said Aurora of Lautenburg. "Please explain
yourself."

I had already recovered myself somewhat, and was vaguely conscious of my
stupidity. I wanted to turn the conversation, but the Grand Duchess was
not to be put off.

"Do you know Baron von Boose?"

"Excuse me, madame," I stammered. "I don't really know whether I ought,
whether I can ..."

"What oughtn't you to say? What can't you say?"

I cursed my clumsy and premature exclamation, which looked like
compromising in one second two months of patient approach. Thoroughly
alarmed, and grasping at a straw, my eyes fastened on Melusine.

The Grand Duchess seemed to doubt the meaning of that look.

"Monsieur," she said, "Fräulein von Graffenfried is my friend, and you
must know that I have no secrets from those I have once called by that
name. You can speak freely before her. Indeed, I ask you to."

There was only one way out of the impasse. Stammering in the approved
manner of those with nothing definite to say, I told her as well as I
could about my conversation with Professor Thierry in the course of
which I had first heard the name of Baron von Boose.

Aurora of Lautenburg's forehead showed a wrinkle.

"I understand," she murmured at length, "or, rather, I think I
understand, in spite of the intentional reservations in your story."

She reflected a moment, then recovered her wonted calm and said:

"This proves, monsieur, how much one should distrust hasty conclusions.
I do not know where your Professor Thierry went for the story with which
he has stuffed your head. If, as you say, he is a conscientious
historian, I think he would have acted less precipitately if he had been
in possession of this--and this."

She handed me the letter I had just seen and with it another.

"These," she explained, "are two of the last letters written to me from
the Congo by the Grand Duke Rudolph. In the first he tells me how he was
saved by Ulrich von Boose from a buffalo which had killed his horse; in
the second, how this same Boose rescued him from five or six natives who
would have given him a bad time."

She looked at me with a smile while I read the passages she indicated.

I bowed, feeling somewhat sheepish.

Melusine had just filled the cups and we drank some very strong tea, in
which pieces of citron-peel floated. Then I kissed the Grand Duchess's
hand and clasped Melusine's.

"Au revoir till tomorrow, _ami_," said Aurora.

I went back through the park to my room, not without noticing, as I went
out, a shadow which had more than a suggestion of Lieutenant von Hagen
about it.


A shot, then another, rang out through the dear, empty night. We
listened. Nothing followed.

Vignerte shrugged his shoulders.

"Some sentry with the creeps."

"Lend me your torch," he said.

He turned on the light and held out two pieces of paper.

"What are they?" I asked.

"The first," he replied, "is a letter addressed to Aurora of Lautenburg
by the Grand Duke Rudolph. This other is the document drawn up by Boose,
which, as I have told you, secured my restoration to the Grand Duchess's
favour. It is as well," he added, "that you should not think you are
dreaming as you listen to my story. Try a little contact with reality."

I scanned the two documents eagerly, one covered with Boose's strong,
vigorous writing, the other adorned with those long feminine characters
which indicate a temperament more prone to reflection than action. I was
deeply moved by this letter of the German Grand Duke, who now rested
beyond the seas in the hot clay of the Congo, between the glowing
boundaries of the tropics. Mere contact with it conjured up a
startlingly clear vision of her to whom it was written. Aurora of
Lautenburg stood before us. I felt as if I had known her for ages.

Vignerte turned off the light and the rectangle of night sky reappeared.
I handed back the papers. He continued.


Brunetière, speaking of the _Lettres de Dupuis et de Colonet_, says
that they show less actual wit than a striving after wit. And that is
more or less true of all Musset's work. Reverse that saying, and you
have the best possible description of the Grand Duchess's conversation.
That proud woman was always aptness itself. She was an exceptional
being, and consequently what she said had always a quality of its own.
Her judgments were severe, perhaps, but never pretentious or bookish.

She avoided the commonplace as the cat avoids water.

I had no idea how much she knew or what she liked, so the three books I
took her that evening were _Le Voyage du Condotière_, _Les
Eblouissements_, _Les Evocations_.

Next morning she gave me them back.

"I've read them all," she said, "but your selection was not a bad one. I
see you like poetry."

Several books lay on a sofa. She picked one up and handed it to me.

"It is the _Caucasian Review_, which is published at Tiflis, and there
is more beauty in these rude pages and simple tales of travel in
unforgettable lands than in most of your modern poets. This is the rare
spring to which the poets of tomorrow will come to drink."

She continued:

"Shakespeare has been dead three centuries, and the haunts of Macbeth
are now treeless and a waste of factories. In Spain Don Quixote has been
succeeded by a horde of commercial travellers from here. In Italy
Carducci is a kind of half-witted Hugo. Like Switzerland, your romantic
countries are now the hunting-grounds of tourists. There are turnstiles
at the bottom of all your peaks.

"Suarès, whose book you lent me, felt all this, and surpasses himself
when speaking of our Dostoevsky. He ought to come, if only for a short
time, to our gorges of Dariel. I am quite sure he would prefer them to
those of the Ebro and Douro, of which you see pictures in every station.

"There is no doubt that Madame de Noailles is your greatest poet. But
why insist on calling her Greek! She is no more Greek than the Ariadne
of the Indian Dionysus or the Circassian Medea. All that is best in her
she owes to Armenia and Persia, our countries. Greek indeed! How silly
they are! Haven't you ever seen her? I once lunched with her at Evian. I
can tell you I took a great fancy to her. She's lovely and malicious,
but honestly she is not Greek at all. At home we have a species of bird
that you call jackdaw. It is very wild, flies high and has a vicious
peck. Its plumage is blue and black, and it is strong, though slight.
Your Madame de Noailles is a Tartar jackdaw, not a fat, lazy Greek
dove."

"What about this?" I said, holding up Renée Vivian's volume of verse.

She kissed the book. "My words are too clumsy for her," she replied. "I
adore her."

I was almost drank with joy to hear the woman whom I admired to the
point of idolatry speak of things dearest to my heart in a setting which
satisfied my exotic tastes. I told her so in a few simple words--as one
always should.

I think she was touched, for she laid her hand on my shoulder and
murmured, I have forgotten in what language:

"Thou art kind and I love thee well, my comrade."

Turning to Melusine, she repeated the Russian phrase of the previous
evening:

"No, indeed, it's no good my relying on for my admission to the
_Kirchhaus_."

Then, resuming her old sprightly tone:

"I believe I called you 'thou' just now, _ami_. You mustn't mind that. I
mix all my dialects occasionally, and in my country we use 'thou' to
practically every one, from our cattle up to the Czar himself."

A long silence followed, broken only at rhythmic intervals by the weird
strains Melusine drew from her guzla.

Incense was burning in a bowl.

I began to turn over, without reading, the pages of a book which lay
open on a small table beside me.

"Do you like that?" Aurora asked.

"That" was the _Reisebilder_.

I told her I was a great lover of Heine.

"Now what I value most in a poet," she said, "is a certain quality of
soul. That is why I love Shelley and Lamartine, and dislike this Heine.
Oh, I know what you'll say, the Nordsee and the rest. No one knows my
debt to him better than I; but he's like Deutz, who sold your Duchesse
de Berry, and I always feel I want to offer him the tribute of my
admiration with a pair of tongs."

She took the book from me and looked through it.

I had no idea what time it was. Suddenly a whiff of air, with that sharp
nip in it that heralds the dawn, was wafted in through the open window
behind the curtains. The smoke of the incense trembled like a tottering
pillar.

Buried in the _Reisebilder_, the Grand Duchess had forgotten my
presence. Melusine put a finger on her smiling lips and took me out
without her mistress noticing that we had gone.

It was very cold outside. To the east the blue sky was undergoing a
magic change, slowly turning to violet, then green, then orange. I sat
down on a seat by the door beneath the Grand Duchess's window, indulging
in a kind of mournful ecstasy. For it was the very spot whither I had
come so many evenings solely in order to be near her.

Then, languid and monotonous, but pure as the icy waters of a mountain
stream, came the sound of a voice. The Grand Duchess was singing to the
accompaniment of Melusine's guzla. She was the very incarnation of
harmony, and her voice was, indeed, the voice of my dreams.

She was singing Ilse's romance, the best of the _Reisebilder_. And
because we had just been speaking of it together I seemed to be still
with her in her room:


                   ILSA

  The Princess Ilsa am I named, my home dark Ilsen's rock;
  Oh come within my castle gate; there we shall happy be.

  My sunlit waves shall bring a balm to soothe thine aching
    brow,
  Thy deep-set griefs thou shalt forget, poor youth all sick with
    care.

  I'll kiss thee and I'll hold thee fast, as once I held and kissed
  The Emperor Henry, my heart's love; ah me! He is no more.

  The dead are dead; they only live who are alive today;
  I still am fair and full of grace; my heart still smiles and
    throbs.

  My heart still smiles and throbs.... Come see within my
    crystal halls
  My maids and knights together dance, my squires right glad
    at play.

  There's rustling of their silken trains, the clink of golden
    spurs,
   My merry dwarfs their cymbals clash, their lutes and trumpets
    sound,

  But thee my foam-white arms shall clasp, as once they clasped
    the King,
  When with my hands I stopped his ears against the clarion's
    call.