When did Aurora sleep? Melusine alone could have known. We heard the
birds awakening at the first coming of dawn. The shrill piping of
finches and sparrows succeeded the plaintive note of the nightingale. I
wonder whether I should hear the birds wake on the morrow.

I realized that the time had come. It was contrary to etiquette, but I
said to Aurora:

"Forgive me for leaving you. I'm very tired." There was a tinge of
reproach in the look she gave me. I felt she was thinking that Melusine
was _never_ tired.

"If she only knew!" I said to myself. And for an instant I was almost
tempted to tell her everything.

I went back to my room and left it a few moments later, taking care to
go out through the Great Court, for fear lest she might see me from her
window.

It was not yet five o'clock when I reached the La Meilleraie bridge.
That hour's respite seemed to me an eternity of bliss. Never had earth
seemed so fair and life so dear as in those moments which I thought
might very well be my last.

I knew that Hagen was one of the finest swordsmen in the garrison. He
was also a crack pistol shot, while I--well, my education had been
confined to firing off two, perhaps three, dozen cartridges with a
revolver during my training periods as an officer of the reserve.

Leaning on the parapet I watched the Melna dashing over the boulders far
below me. Little silvery trout darted up out of the foaming water, and
reminded me of my trout-fishing days, ten years before, in the Ossau
stream, between Laruns and Pont de Béon.

Where was this river going? To join the Aller, which meets the Weser,
which flows into the North Sea, which joins the Channel, which is an arm
of the Atlantic, which receives the waters of the Adour, into which the
river of Pan, swollen by the Ossau stream, runs close by the blue hamlet
of Peyrehorade. Little German trout, little French trout. Foolish,
childish thoughts which carry the mind of a man facing death back
through the course of his life, and bridge the gulf between distant
epochs.

"I am sorry to have kept you waiting, Herr Professor. But it's not yet
quite six o'clock."

Hagen! I hadn't seen him come. I'd almost forgotten him, in fact.

We both bowed.

"I've brought with me," he explained, "everything required for a meeting
without seconds."

He produced a fountain-pen and some paper.

"Revolvers being the weapon selected," he said, "I've brought mine. We
can draw lots if you like, but I think it's hardly necessary. The model
is the same. Now will you be good enough to sign this?"

He had taken the precaution of drawing up a statement, in my name and
his, wherein the two adversaries testified in advance that everything
had been quite fair and regular.

"In case there's an accident, this will save the survivor a good deal of
trouble," he thought fit to explain.

Officialism could hardly go further. All the same I was curious to know
how the signal was to be given. I couldn't help asking him.

He smiled, a smile full of self-satisfaction.

"I've seen to that all right," he replied.

With these words he opened a parcel containing an alarm-clock.

"I've set the alarm for ten minutes past six," he said. "You can test
it, if you like. When it goes off we will fire, changing places if we
like. It's all put down in the statement."

I couldn't say whether tragedy or absurdity was the more conspicuous
feature of the proceedings.

Hagen paced out the distance.

"Eight, nine, ten. Herr Professor, you're a little taller than I. Will
you pace it out too, and if you like, we'll take the mean."

"It doesn't matter," I said. "This is all right for me."

He bowed and drew his revolver from his pocket.

"Seven minutes past," he said. "We'd better take our places."

I toed the line he had drawn at the start. We were now face to face.

The clock was placed on the parapet of the bridge, where we could both
see its face. Its sharp ticking sounded above the distant roar of the
river.

I looked at my opponent. His eyes, bashfully cast down like those of a
girl, were fixed on my feet.

Nine minutes past six.

_He_ is listening for the sound, while I am looking at the hand, I
thought. Suppose the alarm went off too soon!

Suddenly I saw Hagen raise his head. His elegant self-possession had
left him, and a look of unutterable terror was stamped on his features.

I turned round, regardless of the fact that this movement might have
cost me my life. At that very moment the alarm went off, a loud buzz
that went on and on.

The Grand Duchess Aurora was behind me. Then I understood why the
officer hadn't fired.

Aurora was now standing between us.

"Will one of you gentlemen kindly explain the meaning of this curious
scene?" she said coldly.

There was no answer.

The document drawn up by Hagen was under the clock. She picked it up.

"I understand," she said, when she had read it. "Revolvers! Monsieur
Vignerte, you make very bad use of things you're trusted with.
Lieutenant von Hagen, my compliments to you. Your ingenuity is amazing."

Her voice was ironical, but now became very hard:

"Gentlemen, if this is your method of proving that devotion with which
you have never ceased to assail my ears, I may tell you that I have a
very poor opinion of it. You're a foreigner, Monsieur Vignerte, and
cannot be expected, perhaps, to know our duelling regulations. But they
are well known to you, lieutenant."

Hagen hung his head.

"In particular, you know that an officer of the 7th Hussars may not
fight without first obtaining his colonel's permission. Only a year ago
Lieutenant Techner was given thirty days' close confinement in a
fortress for breaking this rule. Have you forgotten?"

Hagen didn't answer.

"Go back and put on your uniform, Herr von Hagen. Then go to the
orderly-room and place yourself at the disposal of Major von Hougwitz
until you receive official notification of the fifteen days' confinement
to which I reduce your punishment in view of your services. You can go,
sir. Don't forget your clock."

Lieutenant von Hagen saluted his colonel, faced about and disappeared.




VIII


A dark form appeared at the entrance of our dug-out, through which the
chilly morning air was now stealing.

"It's five o'clock, sir."

It was the soldier of the party whom I had told off to wake us without
fail.

"We've half an hour before the attack," said Vignerte. "Let's go out.
I'll finish my story outside. I'm very near the end."

The stars had all vanished. One alone still twinkled low down in the
Eastern sky, waiting for daybreak to blot it out.

We sat down on a ledge projecting from the side of a ravine. It
commanded an excellent view of the line held by our Company, and we
couldn't have had a better position to follow the course of the coming
raid.

Close by us a soldier's lowly grave, a shadowy rectangle of dead
branches. On the little wooden cross I could read these words, already
almost obliterated by rain:


"Mohammed Beggi ben Smaël, Private, 2nd Tirailleurs. He died for
France, September 23rd, 1914. Pray for him."


I have seldom seen anything more moving than that little cross pleading
for a Christian prayer for the humble Mussulman soldier.

Vignerte, looking straight in front of him, was waiting for the moment
when the growing light would reveal the lie of the land. But that hour
was not yet come. Only the dark line of the heights occupied by the
enemy could be distinguished on the horizon.


OVER there is Hurtebise and Craonne, he said, and beyond it Laon, Saint
Richaumont and Goise. Farther still is La Capelle and the forest of
Nouvion, where we charged the White Cuirassiers. How often do my
thoughts fly over them to the sandy plains of Hanover and Lautenburg
where I have left Aurora? What is she doing in her room among her rugs
and her jewels? What have they done to her, my God!

When we returned to the palace after the scene on the La Meilleraie
bridge she said not a word to me. We had our breakfast together, then
she began to arrange large purple iris and white nigella in vases.

About ten o'clock she summoned one of her waiting women.

"Is Mademoiselle Marthe there?" she asked. Receiving an affirmative
reply the said:

"Show her in."

Mlle. Marthe came every year about this time to show the Grand Duchess
the last word in novelties from Paris. A delicate suggestion of the
Boulevard de la Madeleine seemed to enter with this good-looking, dainty
girl.

"Have you had a pleasant journey, child?" asked Aurora.

"I arrived last evening, madame," replied the girl. "Please excuse me
for intruding on your Highness so soon, but I have to go back this
evening."

"What have you got for me this year?"

Mlle. Marthe opened her boxes and revealed dainty jewellery, tulle fans,
vanity bags in velvet and moiré, diminutive stamp boxes, powder boxes,
patch-boxes--those Parisian fallals which make all others look cheap.

"Leave me these," said Aurora. "Tell Duvelleroy it will be all right. In
November I shall want a Watteau fan, or at any rate a Lancret. It must
be ready when I arrive in Paris."

"Your Highness shall have it," replied the girl confidently.

"Good. You had better take the five o'clock express this evening. You
will stay to lunch with me and tell me what the Rue de la Paix will be
doing this winter."

During the meal I admired the unaffected ease with which the little
Parisian girl replied to the Grand Duchess's questions. It made me proud
of my pretty fellow-countrywoman to see Aurora, who had so little love
for the women of Lautenburg, treat her as an equal. But how much greater
was my admiration for the self-possession of this princess, who, after
three days and nights such as would have broken a strong man, was able
to carry on light conversation about the thousand and one little trifles
of Paris fashions.

"You still recommend Cartier?"

"Yes, madame, they are still the best for hats."

"Laurence has left the Rue des Pyramids; she has a big establishment in
the Rue Auber. I shall probably give her a call."

"I should suggest Your Highness going there. Laurence specializes in the
export business. Most of her trade is with foreign houses."

It was a pleasure to hear all this small talk, a refreshing, idle
interlude in tragic events; it almost helped me to forget.

About three o'clock the Grand Duchess handed Marthe an envelope.

"This is for your journey, my dear. I don't want you to miss your train.
A car will take you back to your hotel, then on to the station. I am
quite satisfied. Don't forget my fan. Good-bye. I shall be calling on
you in November."

When the little ray of sunshine had vanished the Grand Duchess remained
a moment in thought, fingering the trifles that lay scattered about the
room. Then she said:

"Monsieur Vignerte, I have an important piece of news for you."

My reply was a look of hungry questioning.

"I have the honour to inform you," she continued, "that I have just
received a letter--a letter from Baron von Boose."

I showed my astonishment.

"Do you imagine," she said, "that dear little Marthe has come from Paris
solely to bring me Duvelleroy's baubles, charming though they are?"