Damestoy and Henriquez were asleep in the dug-out where the three
runners had come for them. With the natural deference of the private
soldier they had arranged the best spots for us--two holes with plenty
of straw and a pile of dark blankets.

The silence was broken only by the gentle breathing of these good
fellows and, occasionally, the squeak of a field-mouse hunting for the
ears still left in the straw. I could not see Vignerte, who was lying
beside me, but I was sure he was not asleep. The open door of the dug-out
showed a blue patch of sky with a silvery star hanging like a tear in
its depths.

An hour, perhaps, passed thus. Vignerte had not moved. He ought to have
been asleep, this mysterious comrade whom the war had sent me. Why was
he so moved tonight? What memories had possessed a mind which appeared
to be fixed ruthlessly on the thousand details of war as if to avoid
straying aimlessly through forbidden worlds?...

And suddenly I heard a deep sigh while a hand clasped mine.

"Vignerte, what on earth's the trouble?"

An even more convulsive clasp of his hand was all my reply.

Then I burnt my boats.

"Old man, dear old man. I think I've earned the right to call you that.
Let me share the trouble that's weighing on you. You are unhappy
tonight. Tell me your sorrow. If we were in Paris, or anywhere else, I
should not be guilty of this indiscretion. But a confidence which would
be absurd elsewhere becomes sacred here. Tomorrow, perhaps, we shall be
in action, Vignerte! Tomorrow, perhaps, four men will be digging our
graves where that German sleeps now. Won't you speak to me, Vignerte,
won't you tell me? ..."

I felt the pressure of his hand relax.

"It will be a long story, old fellow. And will you understand? I mean,
won't you think me a bit mad?"

"I'm listening," I said firmly.

"You shall hear then. For these memories almost choke me, and indeed
there are some which it would be selfish for me to take away alone. So
much the worse for you. You will get no sleep tonight! ..."

This is the strange story which Lieutenant Vignerte told me that night
of October 30th, 1914, at the spot which those who have known it call
the "Crossroads of Death."




THE SECRET SPRING




I


YOU are a University man, he began. You must forgive me if the opening
of my story is not free from a suggestion of bitterness against the
University of which I was never a member. No doubt my feelings are
without justification, since to the fact that I was never admitted I owe
memories which, after all, I would not exchange for a chair at the
Sorbonne.

I took the course marked out for those with some intelligence and no
money, and went in for scholarships. That means I undertook, somehow, to
get through examinations every year, to acquire a certain habit of mind
and with it, as climax, a teacher's diploma and a post in a provincial
school.

At first I justified the hopes reposed in me by the Council-General of
my Department. My scholarship at the Mont-de-Marsan school was succeeded
by another in advanced rhetoric at the Henry IV. school. There it was
that in 1912 I tried to get into the _École Normale Supérieure_.
Thirty-five candidates were accepted. I came out thirty-seventh. By way
of consolation prize I was offered a scholarship at the _Faculté des
Lettres_ of Bordeaux University.

I then did something which met with disapproval from the few friends who
took any interest in me. During my year as a boarder I had glimpsed
Paris as a convict sees green fields through the bars of his cell. I
remember myself as a penniless schoolboy walking in the Champs-Elysées
one Grand-Prix day in June. All the millionaires were returning home
from the races. Each of the cars that flashed down the avenue in a
brilliant stream cost ten times more than my poor self had cost since I
came into the world. A wonderful lemon and mauve light flooded the
scene. I was dazzled. This vision of extravagance inspired me with none
of the sentiments that turns the underdog into a rebel.

If only I could have my share some day! "Balzac is an excellent
realist," my professor of rhetoric used to splutter out. And if that
narrow-minded but honest old fellow said so, it vouched for the truth of
those adventures of young provincial heroes who, rather than accept
insignificance in an obscure corner of their native land, have come to
the Great City, tamed her and made her the submissive hand-maid of their
desires.

And now they were proposing to send me to the end of the earth. I had
been weighed in the balance and found wanting. Well, we should see!

Accordingly I resigned my scholarship and decided to enrol myself at the
Sorbonne with a view to taking my _licence ès lettres_. A voice within
said: "Do not enter the University, but do not despise its degrees. They
are only useful when you have not been there. Outside they are excellent
blinds."

In a year I had taken my licence, living on the lessons I managed to
give here and there, and imbibing from these tasks an ever-keener
longing for freedom. But in the end I felt myself beaten, and resigned
myself to the fate I had despised. I entered for a scholarship in
history, asking for Bordeaux. And I bade farewell to Paris.

The Consultative Committee of Public Education, whose duty it is to
decide in these matters, usually met at the beginning of October. I
spent the intervening two months at a fishing village in the Landes, at
the house of an old curé (it sounds dull, but it's true), who opened
his poor house to me in memory of my parents, whom he had known.

It was there, my friend, that I passed the most peaceful days of my
life. I was free to roam at will through the great woods of the
district, with no other appointments beyond meal-times. For the first
time my reading was confined to such things as did not figure in an
examination syllabus or the annual competition, and my mind could take
in undistracted the glorious miracle of the dying season.

The curé's house was at one end of a small lake which communicated with
the sea through a narrow channel choked with aquatic plants. In the
morning the roar of the tide woke me in my open room. From my window I
would watch the irresistible advance of the great green ocean under a
pink and grey sky. Wild duck and curlew wheeled overhead with their
plaintive cries. What a temptation to stay there for ever! To watch the
calm passage of the seasons. To be free from social ties, official
routine, or any link with life. To spend all day and every day on the
long straight dunes, where the great waves roll up ceaselessly in the
wind and the jelly-fish thrown up high and dry on the silvery sand look
for all the world like amethyst pendants.

Then one October morning came two letters, one from the Bordeaux Academy
which announced that the Consultative Committee "regretted they had been
unable to give favourable consideration to my application for a post."
The other was signed by Monsieur Thierry, Professor of Germanic Language
and Literature at the Sorbonne. This good man and conscientious scholar
had been my tutor for a year, and he it was who had corrected the thesis
I submitted in July for my licence--on "Clausewitz and France," of all
things. I had never had anything but praise for him. I knew he cherished
friendly feelings for me and possibly reproached himself somewhat. He
was on the Committee and his letter was an endeavour to justify the
decision. Personally he had done what he could, but some of the members
had expressed doubts as to my suitability for the teaching profession,
and on this point even he himself had to confess he spoke without much
conviction. But in any case, it was better thus. He could not imagine me
a provincial student. "Return at once," he ended up, "there is perhaps a
way out which will enable you to live in Paris."

I bade farewell to my good old curé, promising him to return in the
January vacation, and next day I stepped out on the platform of the Gare
d'Orsay.

It was already winter. You could easily count the statues in the
leafless Luxemburg. The fire was crackling in M. Thierry's little room
in the Rue Royer-Collard.

"My dear boy," he began--and lonely as I was, I felt extremely grateful
for this preface--"you mustn't think hardly of the Committee. It is the
duty of my colleagues to keep a single eye on the interests of the
University, and you yourself won't deny that in your work you have often
displayed--how shall I put it?--a spirit of fancy, yes, a spirit of
fancy likely to alarm folk so ... serious-minded. I, of course, know
you, and it's another matter. I know that that spirit under good
guidance will become nothing more than a pleasant originality. But first
let me put a question. Do you really feel a call to the teaching
profession?"

What reply was to be expected from a man with exactly one hundred and
seven francs and a few centimes in his pocket? I stoutly protested my
conviction.

"Well," he went on, "I have the very thing for you. That post would have
given you one thousand two hundred francs at the most. I have
recommended you to an old friend of mine who is director at the Ternes,
a private institution. He is looking out for a history teacher. Six
hours a week for one hundred and seventy-five francs a month, and the
chance of some private tuition. For example, you may, if you wish,
continue your own studies at the Sorbonne at the same time. I know you
and will make myself responsible for you. It is now Tuesday. If you like
the prospect you can start on Friday."

I felt the harsh, cold grip of usherdom upon my neck. Oh, those
Champs-Elysées! The furswathed women with their entrancing wake of
perfume behind them! But how could I fail to "like the prospect"? One
hundred and seven francs and a few centimes....

I overwhelmed him with my gratitude.

He rubbed his hands.

"I am seeing M. Berthomieu this evening. Come back at ten tomorrow and I
will give you place and time."