"After I became the Grand Duchess of Lautenburg-Detmold in the autumn of
1909, my first concern was to set about the improvements required to
make this place reasonably comfortable. The gardens had been allowed to
run riot, and as for the palace, it was crammed with horrors that even a
negro chief would not have tolerated.

"I soon revolutionized all that. Melusine, who came in the summer of
1910, would tell you that I spent my time then very much as I do now,
except that when I felt particularly low-spirited I used to escape to
Russia to relieve my feelings.

"The person who did change was the Grand Duke Rudolph. Not that he ever
ceased to treat me with the most unwearying attention, poor man! But
after a year, when he had quite realized that his innocent little scheme
was not working, and never would work, and that I should never be
anything more to him than I had said, he became melancholy and spent
most of his time indoors, Henceforth he was known at Lautenburg as
'Rudolph the Silent.'

"Worse than that, he was out of favour with the Kaiser. William II.
likes to think himself a kind of Louis XIV. He does not like German
princes who don't haunt Berlin and accuses them of separatism. Now
Rudolph has ceased to go to Court altogether.

"He disliked seeing anybody, even at Lautenburg. The 7th Hussars had to
get on as best they could without their colonel. He spent half his day,
and nights in the library, studying works on mineralogy, his favourite
science. It was, in fact, occupying his whole time when Baron von Boose
came upon the scene.

"Melusine knew this Boose, the mention of whose name made you start.
There never was a worse bridge-player--was there, Melusine? He only knew
ordinary bridge. I had asked the Grand Duke to lend him to us to make a
fourth, but he was so stupid and disagreeable that I was soon only too
glad to send him back to his beloved books.

"He was very learned. That much at least must be said for him. For at
thirty-two, though only a lieutenant in the Engineers, he was professor
of topography at the _Kriegs Academie_. His book the 'Geotectonics of
the Hanoverian Plain,' is a standard European work. At Berlin one day he
assaulted a major who had asserted that there were rocks of quaternary
origin in the Harz. Rudolph admired his work and went before the
court-martial to give evidence on his behalf. Thanks largely to his
intervention, Boose got off with sixty days' solitary confinement in a
fortress. When his time was up my husband secured his appointment to the
3rd Battalion of Engineers at Lautenburg.

"In the spring of 1911 I went to Russia, to spend Easter with Papa. It
was while I was there that I received a letter, which I ought to have
shown you, from the Grand Duke. He told me that the Kaiser had summoned
him to Berlin, and asked him whether he was prepared to use his
scientific knowledge in the service of the Empire. Exploration had just
proved the existence of immense mineral wealth in the Cameroons. It was
necessary to confirm this discovery, and also ascertain as discreetly as
possible the mineral resources of the neighbouring territories, so that
the question of Germany's interest in annexing them might be considered.
I'm sorry to say, my friend, that the territories in question form that
part of the Congo which France ceded to Germany by the treaty of 1912.

"So Rudolph was going off to Africa with Boose. With a sorry pretence of
indifference he made his excuses for leaving Europe without waiting for
my return, pleading the urgency of the imperial orders. He added that if
he allowed himself to take such a course, it was only because he was
certain that his absence would make no difference to the normal course
of my existence. In that my poor friend was woefully wrong.

"Letters from him reached me from Paris, Bordeaux, and Saint-Louis in
Senegal. From the Congo itself came the two or three which I have shown
you. Then came an interval, rather a long interval, and one day my
brother-in-law, Frederick-Augustus, arrived at Lautenburg, bringing the
sad news that the Grand Duke had had sunstroke, and died at Sangha,
almost at the end of his journey. My name had been the last on his lips.

"Melusine will tell you how I mourned for Rudolph, and not indeed as I
should mourn for Taras-Bulba, were he to die tomorrow, for I have never
done that horse a wrong. But though I was always frank and loyal to
Rudolph, I could not get rid of the feeling that in some way I was to
blame for his death.

"As a funeral was impossible, a magnificent service was held in memory
of him who rests under the sun-baked clay of Africa. The Emperor and
Empress and all the German princes were present. The red Hussars of
Lautenburg, with crêpe on their swords, rendered the last honours, and
their uniforms during the service made me think sadly of the poor red
Hussar of the Peterhof who danced so badly but was so kind.

"Every sentence of my story, my friend, has been a mark of my confidence
in you. You shall now have clear proof in every word that follows.

"You know my little orderly officer, Hagen, and have no particular
liking for him. I can't say whether devotion or love is his ruling
passion. Devotion enables one to repose absolute trust in another, but
love makes one alive to another's interests in a way that is impossible
for oneself.

"Six months after Rudolph died neither I nor Melusine had the slightest
suspicion of what was to follow. I was occupied exclusively with my
duties as sovereign and surprised myself with my punctiliousness in
carrying them out. I presided at the Diet and council meetings. I signed
decrees, summoned the tribunals, appointed officials--to the
satisfaction of all concerned, I think. The town of Lautenburg was never
more prosperous than under my rule.

"Hagen, on the other hand, was uneasy. I watched him grow more morose
every day. After some time, hating the company of a face as long as a
fiddle, I called him up and told him to explain himself or go on leave.
He fell at my feet.

"'How could I be anything else,' he sobbed, 'when you are going to be
another's?'

"He was very much surprised when I told him I didn't know what he meant.

"'How can that be,' he muttered, 'for at Berlin, and even here,
they talk of nothing but your approaching marriage to Duke
Frederick-Augustus?'

"It was too much this time! The woman I pride myself on being can be
married once, by surprise. But twice!

"When Hagen, who was in the habit of going to Berlin several times a
month, had told me the story, I realized that something serious was
afoot. I had a clearer understanding of affairs next morning, when I
received a letter from my father. It was all too plain that he had been
carefully coached, taken on his weak side--his desire to see his
daughter a queen.

"I hate worrying you with dynastic details, but I must prepare you for
what follows. I'll make them as short as possible. Why had I become
Grand Duchess of Lautenburg? In order that I might realize Papa's
ambition and become Queen of Würtemberg on the death of King Albert.
The Lautenburg succession is not subject to the Salic Law, so that I
still remained Grand Duchess on Rudolph's death. On the other hand, the
succession to the throne of Würtemberg is governed by that law. So we
have this situation: only a Grand Duke of Lautenburg can mount the
throne of Würtemberg. Therefore, before I could be Queen of Würtemberg
I must first marry Duke Frederick-Augustus and thereby make him the
Grand Duke of Lautenburg-Detmold.

"The sole object of Papa's letter was to reconcile me to that marriage.

"I'm afraid that in my reply, which was exceedingly prompt, I rather
forgot the respect a daughter owes her father, whatever he does.

"But you can realize how exasperated I was. Was I to be forced to marry
every German prince in turn? What a prospect for one who had never
wanted to marry at all!

"About a week passed, and then I received a letter from the Empress.
I've no doubt she called me her 'dear child,' and overwhelmed me with
friendly flattery, but there was no mistake about the firm invitation to
go to Berlin with which that letter concluded....

"You can imagine that if I submitted it was less from a sense of
obedience than from the desire to fathom any plot that was being hatched
at Court for my benefit.

"I took Melusine and Hagen with me. The Empress received me with
considerable confusion as I had anticipated, and her explanation was
characteristic. Need I say what it was?


   "'Tis not love that must rule a princess and her fate,
     To obey is the glory and end of her state.


"Love! Obey! What was the good of my protesting that her reasoning was
false; that I had never loved any one, and that in any case I hadn't
married to obey the first time. Poor Rudolph wasn't there to produce our
little compact which absolved me from those very obligations. And,
anyhow, what was the good of arguing with a worthy dame who was merely
repeating her lesson?

"I listened, my lips pressed together, and said nothing. She got
thoroughly muddled, and when she had finished I asked:

"'May I ask your Majesty what date has been fixed for my marriage with
the Grand Duke Frederick-Augustus?'

"She protested that the Kaiser had never had any idea of precipitating
matters, and that no date had been settled.

"'Only the principle!' I said.

"She didn't answer.

"I went back to my room, calm and collected.

"'I leave tonight for Astrakhan,' I said to Melusine and Hagen, who were
anxiously awaiting my return. 'Have my things packed. Those who love me
can follow me.'

"Hagen gave me my letters, which had been sent on from Lautenburg. There
were five or six, and one had a Russian stamp. I recognized Papa's
writing.

"What excellent use they had made of the fact that I had been
unsuspecting! I found out later that the letter I had written to him a
fortnight earlier had been forestalled by a special envoy from the
Kaiser. It hadn't taken much diplomacy to win over my father. The famous
crown of Würtemberg had once more played its part. Gently but firmly he
told me his wishes. 'Marry Frederick-Augustus, or ...'

"I didn't read on but tore up the letter into little pieces. Then and
there I wrote out a telegram--some thirty words of passionate pleading
and threats--to the Tumene Prince.

"You remember, Melusine, how we suspected postal censorship at Berlin,
and how you took the train and sent off the telegram from Köpenick.

"When you had gone my feelings overcame me, and I burst into
tears--tears of rage and hatred. I can still see myself in that awful
Berlin room. Hagen was sobbing at my feet. He had taken my hands, and
even my arms--this is absolutely true--and was covering them with tears
and kisses. 'I will go with you, I shall follow you, where and when you
will,' he murmured. When all's said and done I am proud to think that it
only wanted a word from me to make a Prussian officer throw up his
profession and abjure his native land.

"But the touch of that moustache on my arm quickly brought me back to a
sense of reality. I remembered Louisa of Saxony and all the low lackeys
who have made money out of their notoriety as the lovers of queens. I
pushed the innocent Hagen away and recovered my self-possession.

"I didn't go out at all during the two days while I was waiting for the
reply to my telegram. Then it came, the little blue slip. You were
looking hard at me, Melusine, so I smiled as I opened it. It contained
these simple words:


"'I will never see my daughter until she has done her duty.'


"What a heart of flint the old Kalmuck had!

"I read it and fell to the floor like a stone.