"I'm afraid I most stop to explain matters at this point, _ami_, or you
may find the rest incomprehensible. No doubt you are asking yourself:
'How it could ever have come about that a will like Aurora's could have
yielded? What could this invisible and powerful Frederick-Augustus have
done to get the Empress, Rudolph's godmother, and the Kaiser on his
side?'

"I expect you read your foreign news carefully enough in 1909 to know
that about that time the Eulenburg affair and a Moltke-Harden case were
causing a considerable stir in German Court circles. Personally, the way
these folk took their pleasures was a matter of indifference to me. What
strikes me as monstrous is the fact that these scandals had a
considerable effect on my fortunes.

"Frederick-Augustus seldom stayed at Lautenburg in his brother's
lifetime. I only saw him three or four times, the first occasion being
my wedding, and the second, six months later, the funeral of his wife, a
worthy but stupid woman with wrists like a scullery-maid's. His Serene
Highness your pupil is hardly more intelligent than she.

"The rest of his time was spent in Berlin. The man you have
seen so reserved and formal led a very gay life there. Never
believe those who tell you that profligacy is harmful _ami_. The
rise of Frederick-Augustus is proof to the contrary.

"The one thing in which the present Grand Duke is past-master is the art
of compromising others without compromising himself. He made ample use
of it at Berlin in 1909. Intimate with the Bülows, and a bosom friend
of Eitel and Joachim, he alone could tell you the scenes in which he
figured at that time. But he will never tell you, _ami_, just as he has
never told me, as neither you nor I will ever be able to pay the price
of his confidences. Why, it was his silence alone that gained him the
grand-ducal crown, and may one day bring him the throne of Würtemberg.
When the Empress, with quivering voice, was preaching the virtue of
submission to my destiny, the honest dame was only defending the honour
of two of her sons.

"The brain fever that followed the receipt of my father's telegram
lasted a month, during which I hung between life and death, while
Melusine and Hagen, with a devotion I shall never forget, took turns in
nursing me night and day.

"At length I was convalescent. My hair had been cut off. I was thin but
still pretty. One day, while I was studying in my mirror the pathetic
figure I looked with the little fair curls clustering on my head, Hagen,
who was on orderly duty, came in and announced Duke Frederick-Augustus.

"I was still really too ill to receive him, but I was longing for the
encounter. I must confess, to my shame, that I didn't come out on top
that day.

"He came in and bowed ceremoniously. His blue eyes, in his pale, smooth
face, were bright and dim by turns.

"'My dear sister, what a pleasure to find you up at last, and looking so
well.'

"His perfect ease of manner froze me. He went on:

"'There is no point in not telling you at once the pleasant object of my
visit. Tomorrow it will be nine months since the death of my regretted
brother, the Grand Duke Rudolph. As the legal period of your widowhood
then expires their Majesties the Emperor and Empress would be glad if
you could see your way to fix a convenient date for the celebration of
our marriage. They have expressed their intention of being present.'

"'Tell their Majesties, my dear brother,' I replied, 'that I will fix
any date that suits their pleasure, and kindly add that I hope it will
be the last time I shall give them this trouble.'

"He bowed gravely.

"'That is also my heart-felt desire, dear sister,' he said.

"And he went out.

"We were married one day in March, 1912, a dull, threatening day. The
Emperor and Empress, true to their promise, were present at the
religious ceremony and left for Berlin in the evening. About five
o'clock, first at the Rathaus and then at the castle, the State
authorities and magistrates took the oath of fealty to the new Grand
Duke. At eight the superior officers and higher dignitaries of the Grand
Duchy, some thirty guests, were present at a dinner, informal on account
of our recent mourning, in the banqueting-hall on the ground floor.

"The second course had hardly begun when the sound of tapping, now loud,
now soft, was heard coming from the first floor, immediately above our
heads.

"At first no notice was taken. But the noise continued, tap, tap, tap,
with exasperating regularity.

"The Grand Duke, frowning slightly, beckoned to the lackey standing
behind him.

"'What's that noise?' he asked in a low tone. 'Go and stop it.'

"The man had not returned in a quarter of an hour, but the noise did not
cease.

"'Here, Kessel,' cried the Grand Duke, half annoyed, half amused, 'try
and find out what's going on above our heads. Excuse me, gentlemen,' he
said, turning to our guests.

"Kessel went. Five minutes later he came back, very red. The noise had
stopped.

"'Well!' said the Grand Duke, what was it?'

"Kessel was still silent.

"'Look here, Major,' Frederick went on, beginning to lose patience. 'You
can't have discovered a plot up there, I presume. I must ask you to
reassure my guests. What was the matter?'

"'Builders, your Highness,' murmured Kessel.

"'Builders! at this hour! Today of all days! That's too much of a good
thing. What on earth are they doing? Come, Herr von Kessel, tell me,
please!'

"'They are walling up the yellow corridor,' the officer managed to get
out.

"There was a frigid silence. The yellow corridor was that which
connected the apartments of the Grand Duke and Grand Duchess of
Lautenburg.

"Frederick-Augustus is a man of resource, _ami_. I realized it that
evening and genuinely admired him when, tapping his forehead
significantly, as much as to say, 'Of course! I'd forgotten,' he turned
to a steward and said:

"'Just see that those good fellows are well looked after. They'll have
to work all night.'

"I didn't mind. You see I was pleased with myself, for I felt there was
something of admiration in the sly look he gave me, a look that seemed
to say:

"'And now, you and I must have it out.'"

Aurora had stopped. For a few minutes silence reigned. Then Melusine
went to the window and swiftly drew back the curtains. We saw it was
already light.

I looked at the Grand Duchess, lost in reverie, elbow on knee and chin
in hand. Her beautiful features and clear skin betrayed not the
slightest sign of her night-long vigil.

The chilly dawn found Aurora even more beautiful than the glowing dusk
had left her.




VII


OCCASIONALLY, perhaps once or twice a week, the Grand Duchess preferred
to be alone, and on these evenings I used to resign myself to work.

My study of the Königsmark had been virtually abandoned. I no longer
found much pleasure in disturbing that ancient dust now that fate had
summoned me to witness another drama, the actors in which lived and
moved around me, and spoke to me every day.

There had been a great storm on a certain July evening which Aurora's
pleasure doomed me to spend alone. Through the window, open to the
lowering night sky, I heard the trees dripping. I was working in an
extremely half-hearted manner, my mind straying from the tragedy of the
_Herrenhausen_ to the lands whither the Tumene princess's story had
wafted me. Indeed, it was a piece of pure luck that thrust before my
eyes the supremely important document of which I must now speak.

I told you some time back, with details which must have seemed tedious,
of the dossier compiled by the Queen of Prussia with a view to the
rehabilitation of her mother Sophie-Dorothea. That evening, after
analysing two or three documents of secondary importance, I came to
another, marked S.2--No. 87.

It consisted of two large pages covered with writing in German
characters, crowded closely together. My listlessness vanished after the
first few lines. My mind sprang to attention, for I realized that I had
at last got hold of something decisive.

This document contained the confession of a certain Bauer, who had died
a game-keeper in the service of the Grand Duke of Rudolstadt, and who,
twenty years earlier, had been employed at the _Herrenhausen_. In his
last moments this man, a Catholic, had asked a priest to confess him.
The latter, who had heard of the Queen of Prussia's investigation, made
his absolution subject to a formal statement of the events in which
Bauer had taken part. It was that very confession, bearing the
signatures of the dying man, the confessor and two witnesses, that I was
engaged in examining.

You will understand that, with that proof of authenticity before me, it
chained my attention.

Bauer had been one of the ten men who assisted Countess von Platen to
assassinate Count Königsmark on the tragic night of July 1st, 1694.

His confession related how Countess von Platen prepared punch for her
men while they were waiting for the Count to come out of the Princess's
apartments.

He denies being among those who actually attacked him with their swords
and daggers, but admits that he held him down while Countess von Platen,
with her foot on his head, tried to extort a confession from him that he
had been Sophie-Dorothea's lover.

I was familiar with most of these details. They can also be found in
Blaze de Bury's book. But the statements following definitely settled
the famous controversy as to what happened to the Count's corpse.


When Count Königsmark was quite dead, said Bauer, Countess von Platen
ordered us to carry him to the great fireplace at the back of which is a
bronze plaque six feet wide. Countess von Platen touched a spring. The
plaque divided in two, revealing a little chamber. I just caught a
glimpse, for I was very much perturbed in mind, of a whitish heap which
looked like lime. We laid the corpse down there. Countess von Platen
then sent us away, after telling us to wash off the blood which had
stained the clothes of some of the men. She remained in the Baron's Hall
with her attendant, a certain Festmann....


You see now that I had my reasons when I told you, casually, that
Königsmark's corpse is concealed behind the fire-back in the Knight's
Hall of the _Herrenhausen_. Moreover, Bauer's document had, in my eyes,
a further importance beyond settling the spot once and for all. To me it
was also a proof of the complicity either of Ernest-Augustus or his son.
Remember that Countess von Platen had worked a secret spring, and also
bear in mind that German princes in the seventeenth and eighteenth
centuries were exceedingly jealous of their secret lock-systems. If that
secret was communicated to Madame von Platen it was only for some vital
purpose.

Before starting work I had made some coffee and had three cups, one
after the other. This coffee began to have its effect, by which I mean
that, excited by my first discovery, my mind was absolutely clear at
that moment. Please note this detail as it has its importance.

To discover something is nothing. To establish the truth of your
discovery is everything. Now how was I to go to Hanover, obtain
permission to visit the _Herrenhausen_ and be alone in the Knight's Hall
for the necessary time. You can imagine I had no intention of putting
some palace curator on the track I had just found.

It was then that an idea occurred to me which I will disclose to you as
a proof of the value of coffee in deductive reasoning. You will remember
that when I was studying the question of the employment of French
artists by German princes in the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries I
discovered that the locksmith's work had been given by the Elector
Ernest-Augustus of Hanover to a Catalan named Giroud who had also worked
for the Grand Duke of Lautenburg. This Giroud had even had difficulties
with Ernest-Augustus over his accounts. At that time I had only cast a
cursory glance at the file dealing with the case. It was necessary for
me to examine it more carefully. Perhaps I should be able to find
something about the system of secret springs installed by Giroud at the
_Herrenhausen_. I decided to clear the matter up then and there.

It was just after midnight I put an electric torch in my pocket and
quietly left my room. At that moment I thought I heard a faint noise in
the deserted corridor.

"Come," I thought, "I can't let myself be scared like this by old
papers!"

When I got to the library I was disagreeably surprised to find the
lights on. Professor Cyrus Beck was hard at work covering a black board
with his formulæ and only stopping to consult five or six treatises
open in front of him.

There was, of course, nothing unusual about my appearance there. I had
often gone down late at night to the library to clear up some point in
my next day's lesson. All the same he looked at me with that suspicious
air of the savant who always thinks you're going to rob him of
something.

Two or three pleasant words quickly reassured him. He condescended to
confide to me that he was at a decisive moment in his experiments and
that the next day, without doubt, perhaps that very night.... Through
the open door came the noise of his furnaces, roaring like chimneys on
fire.

I thought it unwise to tell him that I, too, had reached the same stage
as himself in another affair. Besides, almost at once he put away his
books, folded up his notes, rubbed out his formulæ, wished me good-night
and went.

I was eager for his departure as I had already found what I wanted.

With a sureness of method which astonished me I had put my hand straight
off on the vital document, a bill of Giroud's, dated 1682, and addressed
to Ernest-Augustus.

It was a long bill, but I found the following item at once:


For the chimney-place of the Baron's Hall, six springs, in
my name, at one hundred and fifty livres the spring.--Total
900 livres.


I did not need to have a very profound knowledge of secret springs and
locks to know what it meant. The system is still used in safes, Fichet's
and others. It meant that on the fire-back of the chimney-place in the
Baron's Hall of the _Herrenhausen_ there were six lettered locks. You
made the spring act by taking for each lock in turn one of the six
letters forming the name of the inventor, Giroud.

When you remember that this Giroud was the master-locksmith of the Grand
Duke of Lautenburg you won't have much difficulty in realizing that my
first thought was to use the fire-back in the armoury of the castle of
Lautenburg as a test of the accuracy of my reasoning with regard to the
fireplace of the Baron's Hall in the Castle of Hanover. So you may
imagine how impatiently I watched Cyrus Beck's departure.

When at last he had gone I waited a quarter of an hour. Then I turned
out the lights, opened the right-hand door of the library and banged it
to as if I had gone back to my room. Then, taking great care not to fall
over anything and picking my way among the desks and show-cases I
returned and cautiously opened the door on the left hand side which led
into the armoury.

Great pools of moonlight, shaped like the tall lancet windows, flecked
the dark floor. I went straight to the chimney-place. I started at
touching the heavy iron fire-back. It was only when my fingers found a
kind of knob high up on the left that I switched on my electric torch.

I had no difficulty in dealing with the knob. It pivoted on a hinge,
revealing a kind of dial. The whole thing was not unlike one of our
gas-metres.

I started back in dismay. I was expecting letters, but this dial had
numbers. It was divided into twenty-five sections.

Turning off the lamp I sat down on a heavy oak stool close by.

I didn't have to think long. 25! What a fool I was!

I pulled out a pencil and a piece of paper, turned on the lamp again
and, kneeling at the stool, I had soon written out the twenty-five
letters of the alphabet and underneath a row of figures to correspond.
Then I wrote Giroud's name and obtained the following combination: 7, 9,
18, 15, 21, 4.

791815214. It will be a long time before I forget that number.

I examined the whole face of the metal rectangle with my lamp. A
terrible disappointment was in store for me. Instead of the six knobs
that I had _expected_ I could only find two.

When a single factor throws out the kind of calculations I had just made
it can only mean that one's theory is radically false. I might have
known. That would have been much too simple....

Solely to prove myself wrong, I tried the first knob and turning the
pointer on the dial I set it on the figure 7--g.

I crossed to the other side and repeated the operation on the other
knob, putting the pointer on the figure 9--i.

All at once I could hear my heart beat. A black vertical line appeared
in the centre of the plaque. That line got wider and wider. The two
panels thus formed slid back to each side, leaving a gap some two feet
six inches wide.

I was on the right track. The mystery of the _Herrenhausen_ was to be
solved at last!

I had recovered control of myself, perfect control. I remember saying:
"What a delightful way of studying history! I wonder what Monsieur
Seignobos would think of it?"

I passed through the opening, taking with me the stool which had been my
table. On the inside the fire-back had two handles, one on each side.
Very gently, but quite easily, I drew the panels together again, not
absolutely touching, however, for fear of releasing some fatal spring.

Do you remember the 24th August, my friend, in the village of Beaumont,
in Belgium, when you and I went down into a cellar where the inhabitants
said five Uhlans were hiding? You called me a rash fool and came behind,
but I couldn't help smiling at the thought that those five fugitives
were nothing compared with the darkness in which I was wrapped that
night.

When I had pulled the two panels to behind me I found myself in a little
chamber, six feet wide, and six feet high. On each side of me were blank
walls, but at the back was another bronze plaque with, as I expected,
two more knobs to right and left.

I put the hand of the first dial on the figure 18. The pointer of the
second had just reached 15 when the noise of tearing wood, absolutely
terrifying in that dead silence, froze me from head to foot. The lower
half of the immense plaque, opening horizontally about three feet from
the ground, had swung forward and smashed to matchwood the heavy stool
I had placed against it as I came in.

If I hadn't jumped back so smartly my feet would infallibly have been
crushed.

"Excellent!" I murmured. "So their secrets are man-traps, too!"

I bent down and got into the second chamber, which was of exactly the
same dimensions as the first. You can imagine that this time I took all
precautions, standing carefully to the left as I put the pointer of the
fifth dial on 21 and to the right as I turned that of the sixth to 4. I
might have saved myself the trouble. The plaque parted in two
vertically, like the first one, and the panels rolled aside on invisible
hinges.

Then I passed into the third and last chamber.

It was of the same height, but twice as long and wide. The small arc of
my electric torch gave a good light, but covered but a small area.

At first I could only see what looked like white splashes on the floor.

But suddenly, my friend, my very marrow froze within me. I was
frightened, horribly frightened, for in the corner to my left a curious
little white heap had just come into view. Drawn by some over-mastering
instinct I approached it, and even as I approached I wanted to bolt, and
between my chattering teeth I muttered: "It's a hallucination. I'm
dreaming. I _know_ I'm dreaming. I'm not at Hanover. This is Lautenburg.
The palace. There's Doctor Cyrus Beck just round the corner working.
There's the night-watchman. There's Ludwig, my servant. There's Major
von Kessel, honest, kind Kessel ..."

The heap of quicklime was now at my feet. I fell, rather than knelt,
before it.

Fantastic fragments were sticking out of it, shapeless, gruesome white
fragments. Dithering as I was, how did I ever have the courage to pick
one up, run my fingers over it, examine it....

Yet that is exactly what I did. I had that bone, a right tibia, in my
hands, feeling it, examining it.

And then I uttered a loud cry, for in the middle of that bone my finger
came into contact with the mark of an old fracture.