Ten o'clock, and the appointment with M. Thierry which I had almost
forgotten. He was reading in a corner by the fire, and when I entered he
came forward with a beatific smile.

"I have arranged everything with M. Berthomieu. You are to go to him."

"My dear master," I replied, "I'm afraid I have given you all the
trouble for nothing."

And I told him all that had happened the previous evening. In spite of
my wish to appear unmoved, I could not manage to conceal my pleasure. I
was disappointed that he did not seem to share it at once. He looked at
me with astonishment, even with disapproval, I thought.

These university people are all the same, I reflected, no salvation
outside the University. I abandoned the pose I found so unnatural to
proclaim far and wide my pride in my new glories.

"And, after all," I wound up, "I ask myself how many examinations I
should have to pass, how many years I should have to wait to reach the
position which is open to me at the start, ten thousand marks a year."

"That's true," he murmured, musing. He looked into the fire for a
minute, then got up and went to the bookcase, from which he returned
with a large volume in one of those dull-coloured, gilded, but tasteless
bindings which characterize many English and German books.

"Are you certain that the proposal has been made to you on behalf of the
Grand Duke of Lautenburg-Detmold?" he asked.

"Yes," I replied, "on behalf of the Grand Duke Frederick-Augustus."

"That's the man. To be tutor to his only son, Duke Joachim."

It was thus that I learnt the name of my future pupil.

My old tutor thought a few seconds more, and then, raising his glasses
towards me:

"May I ask if you are already bound by any formal contract?"

"Not yet, strictly speaking, but my mind is made up, and I shall go
unless some one else is preferred to me."

"In that case let us say no more," said M. Thierry, putting the book
back.

I was intrigued and a little annoyed.

"My dear master," I said, "will you be really frank with me? I know you
are too interested in my welfare to suggest my refusing such an
attractive offer unless you had very serious reasons for doing so.
Besides, I may confess that in coming to you this morning I hoped to
obtain some valuable information about the Court of Lautenburg-Detmold
for your unique knowledge of the men and affairs of modern Germany. I am
sure you are even more familiar with these details than I suspected. I
am to interview Count de Marçais, our Minister at Lautenburg, very
shortly, but it will not be easy for me to question him. Besides, a
diplomatist must doubtless observe a certain reticence, which you have
not the same reason to consider with me. To put it shortly, may I ask
you a question which sums up all this? If you had a son, Monsieur
Thierry, would you let him do what I propose to do? Would you let him go
to Lautenburg?"

He looked straight at me, and replied firmly, "No."

I confess that my astonishment began to give place to a slight feeling
of apprehension. I knew perfectly well that it was not childish pique at
my not accepting the post he had found for me, that influenced a man of
his profound judgment.

"You must have very good reasons, sir," I said, my voice trembling a
little, "to give me so categorical an answer."

"I certainly have," he replied.

"Would you mind telling me what it was you looked up in that book?"

"My dear boy, don't start thinking that that year book of Reigning
Houses contains any details of a kind to justify the apprehension I feel
at your going to Lautenburg. I have verified a name, confirmed certain
recollections--that's all.

"It is true that I have certain private information about the House of
Lautenburg-Detmold of which Count de Marçais himself might know
nothing, even assuming that he were a more gifted diplomatist than he is
reported to be. Besides, he has not been very long at Lautenburg, and
never knew the late Grand Duke Rudolph."

"Who was the Grand Duke Rudolph?"

"Haven't you ever heard of him? He was the elder brother of the present
Grand Duke. He died a few years ago, two, if I remember rightly."

"So it was his death which gave the succession to the Grand Duke
Frederick Augustus?"

"Not directly. The constitution of Lautenburg-Detmold is peculiar. The
Salic Law does not apply, and the ducal crown, on the Grand Duke's
death, passed to his wife, the Grand Duchess Aurora Anna Eleanor."

"So she has married her brother-in-law?"

"Quite so, and thus it happens that in the absence of children of the
Grand Duke Rudolph, your future pupil, Duke Joachim, son of the Grand
Duke Frederick and some German countess, is now the heir presumptive to
the State of Lautenburg-Detmold. To alter the situation the marriage of
his father with the Grand Duchess Aurora would have to be honoured with
a bond, a thing which seems most improbable."

"I seem to remember something about it now," I said. "Wasn't there a
German Grand Duke who died in Africa--the Congo--while engaged in
geographical research two or three years ago?"

"Precisely," replied M. Thierry. "That was the Grand Duke Rudolph. He
was always an enthusiastic geographer. His travels could not, it is
true, be described as altogether unpolitical. When I remember that a few
months later we had Agadir and the loss of the Congo, I can't help
thinking that the Grand Duke of Lautenburg had been sent to accomplish
some mission on behalf of his august cousin, the Kaiser. It is true he
hadn't much time in which to effect his purpose as he died in the Congo
shortly after his arrival. It would be interesting...."

"But what is there in all this, sir," I broke in, "that in any way
accounts for the solicitude you've just shown on my behalf?"

He seemed put out.

"My dear boy," he said, with an obvious effort. "A historian's plain
duty is to accept as fact only what he has been able to verify. From
that point of view I confess that my knowledge is confined to vague
rumours barely susceptible of proof. Certain reports, an allusion or
two, and last--but not least--certain details communicated to me some
time back by a friend whose name I must withhold--that's all. I should
perhaps add the proverb that there is no smoke without fire."

"Couldn't you be a little more precise as to the purport of the
rumours?"

"Will you promise you will keep this entirely to yourself?" he said.

"I give you my word."

"I am told that violent deaths are not unknown at the Court of
Lautenburg-Detmold."

My curiosity reached fever-heat.

"What does that mean?" I asked.

"Unfortunately, or rather, fortunately, nothing definite. Still, we
can't ignore the fact that two persons stood between Duke Frederick
Augustus and the crown."

"But the Grand Duke Rudolph died of sunstroke in the Congo," I said. "It
was reported in the press."

"Agreed. That was a natural death all right, but apparently the same
cannot be said of the death of Countess von Tepwitz--the present Duke's
first wife and the mother of Duke Joachim."

"Do you mean that the Grand Duke was responsible for her death?"

"The Grand Duke Frederick Augustus is a very extraordinary man,"
continued M. Thierry, "able, well-educated, but a master of dissembling.
Is he playing for his own hand? Or for that of the King of Würtemberg,
his immediate suzerain? Or, indeed, for the Kaiser? I have studied this
question from the point of view of German high politics. It isn't a
simple one. Frederick Augustus is a man of ambition, and I don't think
he would stop at anything."

"Anyhow," I said, "his calculations have had to take account of the
Grand Duchess Aurora. Her consent to marry him was an essential factor."

M. Thierry smiled.

"They might have been in collusion. I admit I don't know that side of
the question. In fact, I know nothing of the Grand Duchess except her
age," he said, taking up the blue and gold book again, "her Christian
names--Aurora--Anna--Eleanor; her Russian origin, and that she was a
Tumene princess. The Tumenes are the most powerful family in the
Government of Astrakhan. Has she acted in collusion with the present
Grand Duke? It is possible. You know as well as I that reasons of state
sometimes dictate marriages, but, as I said, I know nothing about her."

"All this does not seem very enlightening, but in any case, I can't see
why a humble tutor should have to suffer for the intrigues of such high
personages."

"That sounds plausible, but how can you ever say what may result from
these sordid affairs. You might find yourself drawn in without knowing
it Do you know, in fact, exactly what your duties are? I will tell you
what is really in my mind. Your salary is to be ten thousand marks,
isn't it? I can't help thinking that figure is unduly high. Your friend
Boubelet, with Normale and his _agrégation_ behind him had only eight
thousand from the King of Saxony."

I saw clearly that the old professor had some very definite reason for
speaking in this way, but that fear of compromising himself prevented
him from saying more. I admit it would have made no difference in any
case. My curiosity was thoroughly aroused. The lust of adventure was
kindled within me, and there was no hesitation about the tone in which I
answered:

"I am very much obliged, sir, for your kind warning but my mind is made
up. By minding my own business and sticking to my own job, I think I can
avoid any and every danger. You admit that it is by no means certain I
am running any risk. Will you grant me one more favour?"

"Certainly."

"If anything ever strikes me as suspicious, I will write to you about it
and ask your advice. Then will be the time ..."

"Don't do any such thing, my young friend. You had better realize now
that over there you will inevitably be surrounded by spies. Never write
a letter you don't want the Grand Duke to read for you can be quite sure
that if he wants to, he won't ask your permission. Once at Lautenburg
you'll be absolutely isolated from the world. I know the palace. Its
magnificence does not prevent it being more of a fortress than a
château."

"I shall always have Count de Marçais."

M. Thierry smiled, a smile which recalled Ribeyre's words: "He's not
much good at getting out of a hole."

"Well," he said, "I see your mind is absolutely made up. After all, my
apprehensions are possibly exaggerated. You are young and without
dependents. You have resolution and strength of mind. I don't know
whether I have any right to blame your thirst for adventure. From that
point of view I'm possibly too much the slave to my academic outlook.
Give me peace and a library. For instance," he concluded, "at Lautenburg
you will have one of the finest libraries in the world at your disposal.
The Grand Duke's collection is famous. It contains the manuscripts of
Erasmus and most of Luther's. So go, my boy.

"One minute, though," he added. "Come back after you have seen Count
Marçais. I may be able to give you some practical hints on the best way
of performing your tutorial functions."


A note, with a dainty purple seal, was waiting for me at my lodgings.
Count Marçais wrote that he would be delighted to see me that day at
three o'clock. As I walked to the house of the French Minister at
Lautenburg in the Rue Alphonse de Neuville, I reviewed the details of my
conversation with M. Thierry. He knows a good deal more than he likes to
say, I thought. Was I really being a fool? Well, it remained to be seen.
After all, there is no greater folly than letting 12,000 a year go at
twenty-five for the pleasure of leading a dull, cul-de-sac existence.

In the light of after events my opinion remains the same.