She was alone in her boudoir, standing, rather pale.

As I entered, my expression must have told her that something unusual
had happened, for she asked no questions as to why I was late.

"Anything serious?" she asked simply.

"Nothing, madame. But we must be quick. We've only just time."

As we reached the door leading to the staircase the door of Melusine's
room opened and Fräulein von Graffenfried appeared.

"What!" she said. "So soon?"

"Yes," said Aurora. "I forgot to tell you we decided to make it an hour
earlier. Don't be alarmed, dear. Stay here and don't let any one in. We
shall be back before midnight."

She kissed her on the forehead.

Torn with apprehension, and her beautiful eyes full of tears, Melusine
von Graffenfried had seized my hands.

"Swear to me no harm shall come to her," she begged. "I commit her to
your care."

"Come, come," said Aurora. "We've no time to lose. Turn out the light on
the staircase."

We went down into the darkness.

When we got to the landing, I felt the pressure of the Grand Duchess's
hand on my arm. She wasn't trembling, I can assure you.

"Are you armed?" she said.

"No."

"Child!" she murmured, and even as she spoke I could feel her hand
slipping something into the pocket of my jacket.

"It's a Browning, a good one. Don't hesitate to use it if the occasion
arises, against any one. I'll set you the example myself."

We were now at the bottom of the staircase. She was leading, and it was
she who opened the door.

"Well?" I said.

She had stopped, blocking the doorway. A dull cry escaped her.

"Didn't I tell you so! Oh, didn't I tell you so! He's a strong man, a
very strong man!"

"What is it?" I asked in terror.

To our right a huge red glare lit up the night sky. Half the castle was
on fire.

Against that background of flame the yews of the park stood out like
black cones. The water in the Persephone fountain gleamed black and red.

"But who could have told him that we should come tonight?" said the
Grand Duchess. "Only three of us knew: I, you and ... _she_."

For a few seconds we gazed at the tragic scene. Then noises began to be
heard in the palace, startled from its first sleep.

"Come," said Aurora, "let's go and see."

As we approached we ran into Hagen. He was flying down the steps of the
right wing like a maniac.

"You! You!" he almost screamed with joy on recognizing the Grand
Duchess. "I was terrified! I _am_ so thankful."

He kissed her hands frantically.

"Forgive me, forgive me!" he stammered, turning to me.

"Stay here with her," I said, and, running off, I made for the
banqueting-hall at top speed.

"Where's he going?" cried Aurora. "Stop him!"

But I was already too far. Crossing the banqueting-hall, I got into the
right wing of the castle. It was the left which was on fire, with the
library, and, of course, the armoury.

What was I thinking of? I had no very clear idea myself. Some force,
with which argument was useless, was urging me on. Some time later I
tried to reason out my action. In my room was my money, papers, a few
letters from my mother--my whole life, so to speak. Yet I'm certain that
not for one moment did I think that I was running such risks for things
like these.

Dense clouds of smoke shot with sparks were pouring out of the
first-floor corridor, at the end of which was the door of my room.

I met Kessel coming down. I heard him shout:

"Where are you going? The stairs are in flames. The corridor's burning!"

But I'd already left him far behind. I took off my jacket and wrapped it
round my head. I don't know how I managed to get to the door of my room.
I only remember that when I touched the handle I burnt my fingers.

Try as I might, I couldn't get the door open. The key turned in the lock
as usual, but the door resisted.

It was then that I noticed a stout iron bolt, screwed into the door at
one end and clamped to the wall at the other.

"So that's it!" I said, "and my window looks on to the ravine of the
Melna!"

I didn't even start I understood. I knew what I wanted.

"So you thought, sire, that I should be still in my room! Didn't you,
now?"

To come and go was but the work of a minute. When I was at the bottom of
the staircase a fearful crash was heard. The upper half of the whole
corridor had just collapsed.

When, wild-eyed and scorched, I got back to the Grand Duchess, several
groups had already collected in the park. A tall man was standing with
her and Hagen. It was the Grand Duke.

"Monsieur Vignerte," he cried rapturously, when he saw me. "Oh, what a
weight you've taken off my mind! Have you come from far?"

"Yes, indeed, sir, very far!" I replied, and nearly fell.

"Hold him!" cried Aurora to Hagen.

The little red Hussar obeyed.

"Look out!" the Grand Duke broke in suddenly. "That's exactly what I
feared."

Catching hold of his wife, he had suddenly jumped back a dozen yards or
so. We all followed suit, stupefied.

An enormous flame, purple and gold, shot up into the glowing sky,
followed by an appalling explosion. We saw the walls of the castle part
asunder, totter and then collapse with a crash. A shower of fragments of
every kind, wood and plaster, tiles and sparks fell on and around us.
Beside us Captain Müller, who had gone forward, was hit by something. We
saw him fall to the ground, with his head bleeding.

Professor Cyrus Beck's laboratory had just blown up.

The firemen turned up almost immediately and set to work to localize the
fire. In the Great Court behind we could hear the measured, muffled
sound of the garrison troops coming up at the double.

By one o'clock the fire had been got under. At half-past they were
bringing out the first corpses.

About two the first streaks of gold appeared in the sky and a serene
dawn shone forth.

Just then a stretcher, borne by four soldiers, came past us. We
recognized the body of the professor, terribly mangled.

The Grand Duke bent over it and took a long look. Then, throwing back
the cloth over the horrid vision, he murmured:

"This was bound to happen sooner or later, with an old fool like that."

Such was the funeral oration of Herr Professor Cyrus Beck, of Kiel
University.