The Grand Duchess, Melusine and I went back to the left wing of the
palace. It was about six o'clock. The day already promised to be very
hot, for the summer sun rose red over the awful scene of desolation.

Melusine had joined us when the fire first began. She had spent the time
helping the Grand Duchess to attend to the injured firemen and soldiers,
who had been taken to the banqueting-hall.

Aurora hadn't a word to say as she walked, and, busied with the burden
of our own reflections, we respected her silence.

Suddenly she raised her head and smilingly showed me something in the
blue sky, already turning white with heat.

A bird, coming from the east, was flying above our heads. It had a
curious, jerky flight, now rising, now falling, the flight of birds with
short wings, like the quail and partridge.

It disappeared to our left in the depths of the English garden by the
Melna.

A second, then a third flew by and passed out of sight at the same spot.
Then a score or more followed.

"The first missel-thrushes," said Aurora. "They are going to the sorbs
of the Melna."

We had now reached her apartments. "Poor Melusine," she said in a
curious tone; "you're absolutely done up. You must go and rest. I'm
going to my bower to try and get a little recreation with those birds."

"I want to come, too," said Melusine.

"No, no!" replied the Grand Duchess. "Raoul Vignerte will come with me.
I've something to say to him. You _must_ go and rest. I order it. Just
bring me down my gun and some cartridges. Lend yours to Vignerte. He's
left his own behind, under the ruins of the castle."

The girl still insisted on going with us.

"Go!" said Aurora sternly.

Melusine left us. She seemed almost dead with fatigue and the strain.

To avoid disturbing the thrushes we took a winding path to the bower,
where I had had my first interview with the Grand Duchess of Lautenburg.
Every now and then we saw a thrush rise above the clumps of sorbs, take
a good look round and then drop down, satisfied.

When we were in the leafy tunnel I thought we should have to make some
kind of loophole, for the foliage was amazingly thick, and shut us in
with its green, almost opaque wall.

The Grand Duchess didn't seem to mind. She had not spoken a word as we
walked. Her face wore an expression of firm resolution. I hadn't broken
the silence either. What could I have said? I'm sure our thoughts were
the same at that tragic moment. What was the good of exchanging them?

Suddenly the set expression of her features relaxed a little. She began
to talk in low tones. I was astounded by her extraordinary conversation,
and the not less extraordinary notion of going there at such a moment to
shoot the birds, whose habits she was describing.

Her loaded gun lay across her knees, and she had a curious smile, which
made me think that the events of the night must have turned her brain.
This is what she said:

"Missel-thrushes. You know them well. They're like ordinary thrushes,
only larger. They're on you very much quicker. Very difficult to shoot,
though they don't look it. Treacherous creatures. You know they're near,
as we do now. But you can't see them. You guess where they are and when
to fire. I'm used to them myself. So when I say 'Fire,' and show you the
direction, you must fire. Don't worry about a target. You'll go and look
and there'll be a thrush on the ground."

She lowered her voice until it became a mere whisper, then, stretching
out her arm, she pointed to something, an imperceptible rustling in the
thick foliage.

"Fire!" she ordered, "fire, now, fire!"

"But I can't see anything," I said, disconcerted.

"Fool," she murmured. "I will then."

She raised her gun to her shoulder and fired.

A bang, then a terrible heartrending scream.

I trembled like the leaves which were still quivering under the shower
of lead.

Leaning on her smoking gun, the Grand Duchess said to me with a wan
smile, "Go and see...."

Obediently I staggered up and passed the green wall. Behind it, in a
pool of blood fast soaking into the ground, Melusine von Graffenfried
was writhing in her death agony, her face literally blown to bits by the
charge which she had received almost at point-blank range.

"What a ghastly accident!" I cried in a horror-stricken voice.

The Grand Duchess had come out of her bower.

One of Melusine's eyes was blown out, but the other was fixed on Aurora
with a mad look of terror and torture.

Aurora gazed at her coldly, and murmured the words of Hamlet after he
had killed Polonius:

"_I took thee for thy better!_"

With a horrible gasp Melusine expired.

For one moment the Grand Duchess stood motionless. The rigid lines in
her face almost terrified me. Not a tremor shook her at the
contemplation of the dead girl's glassy eye.

"Let's go back," she said at length, "we must let them know about this
fresh calamity."

From my trembling fingers she took the light, engraved gun which had
been Melusine's, and laid it down beside the corpse.

She signed to me to stay behind, and went off quickly.

Left alone with the corpse, at first I couldn't bring myself to look at
it.

My God! where was now that lovely smooth skin, that perfect oval face,
those melting eyes. Loathsome, bloody pulp of flesh, earth and hair.

Disgusting green insects were already buzzing round the horrid mass. I
cut a leafy hazel branch and kept brushing them off, much as the old
muffin men at home brush the flies off their trays with paper fans.

The Grand Duchess was soon back. Madame von Wendel, two or three
waiting-women and Melusine's maid came with her, weeping copiously. With
her usual self-possession she gave the necessary orders. Melusine's body
was placed on a stretcher and carried to the palace.

Just as we reached it we saw the Grand Duke coming to meet the sad
procession. He was on his way to visit the casualties of the night, when
he was informed of the new blow that had fallen upon the Court of
Lautenburg.

He rushed up visibly moved.

"Oh, madame," he said, pressing Aurora's hand, "what a dreadful
misfortune."

"Fate brings these catastrophes, sir," replied the Grand Duchess, with
wonderful self-possession.

"However did it happen?"

"How should I know, sir?" replied Aurora. "Truth to tell I know no more
about it than you yourself know of the origin of tonight's fire."

The blow went home, but the Grand Duke did not lower his head.

"You are right, what does it matter how it happened since the dreadful
results are only too self-evident? Let me associate myself with you in
mourning the terrible loss you have suffered in Fräulein von
Graffenfried's death."

"Terrible it is, sir," replied Aurora, "and that is why I hasten to
express my gratitude to you, since I have you to thank for the fact that
it is not utterly irreparable. Perhaps you had some forebodings of what
was to come when you decided to give me a second confidante in the
person of Monsieur Vignerte?"

Frederick-Augustus bit his lips. But his reply was terrible.

"I know, Madame, that you value M. Vignerte's services highly, and I am
delighted. And if Fräulein von Graffenfried's dreadful end moves me so
much, in its effect on yourself, it is because I know that there are
some things for which a woman is irreplaceable."

Such an exchange of envenomed condolences seemed to me almost
terrifying. Kessel, Colonel von Wendel, and the others who were standing
round, had no idea of the full meaning of the tragedy. I was at once
proud and dismayed to share such confidences. Memories of Professor
Thierry shot through my mind. I had promised him never to mix myself up
in the private affairs of the Lautenburg sovereigns!...

I did not know which to admire more, the portentous courtesy of the
Grand Duke, or the icy dignity of the Grand Duchess. I thought for a
moment that she would flinch and lose her self-possession under the
infamous insinuation he had just made. She did nothing of the kind, and
her reply was better than the attack that had provoked it:

"Irreplaceable you have rightly said, sir. And so it is with no idea of
his taking Melusine's place that I ask you to leave Monsieur Vignerte
entirely at my disposal. On the contrary, I rely on his devotion to help
me to preserve as vivid a recollection as possible of our dear dead
friend and the events of this tragic night."

She added:

"Owing to the fire M. Vignerte is actually without a roof. Will you
kindly allow him to be my guest from this day forth?"

The Grand Duke bowed.

"It shall be done, madame, according to your wishes. May his society
accord you a slight measure of that relief so necessary to your mental
health after the heavy blows the will of the Most High has seen fit to
inflict upon us."

Thereupon he left us.


In the Grand Duchess's boudoir, converted into a mortuary chapel, the
coffin was smothered under a mass of Circassian roses and iris, between
bowls from which the smoke of incense arose.

Aurora had wished to be alone with me to watch by the bier of her dead
friend. Callers who diffidently asked for admittance received short
shrift, I can assure you.

Dressed in a black Armenian tunic, she recited the beautiful prayers of
her faith in low tones.

I had not closed my eyes for two days, and about midnight I sank into a
chair worn out, and on the verge of collapse.

When I opened my eyes again the Grand Duchess was standing by me. In the
light of the tall candles soft flickering shadows passed over her face.
She put her hand on my forehead and murmured with a sweet, sad smile:

"You are tired out. Go to bed, dear friend, poor friend, whom I once
doubted."

Oh, human frailty! Sleep swept me off that night, a night I could have
spent entirely alone with her amidst the suggestive scent of funeral
wreaths in the very presence of death, from which anything can be
expected. I slept in Melusine von Graffenfried's room. The old,
half-witted waiting-woman came grumbling to change the sheets.