The road, an endless white ribbon, sparkled softly in the light of the
moon. It slipped beneath our wheels as the car whirled along at a giddy
pace. And every time we turned a corner I learned how amazingly sure
were the hands of the woman who was driving me.

The whole thing had happened so quickly that when I was once more in a
condition to take things in we had already done quite sixty miles. Then
Aurora's expression, "I shall be back by this time tomorrow," came to
mind, and I realized in a flash that in a few short hours I should be
separated from the Grand Duchess.

I did not rebel. The prodigious speed at which we were going lulled me
into a kind of helpless torpor which soon developed a curious bliss of
its own. Dark clumps of trees and funny little switchback bridges over
silvery rivers fled behind us. We passed a cart laden high with hay: a
few inches more to the left would have meant death. Death. I uttered
that word and glanced at Aurora's set face. Her gauntleted fingers
looked like thin, white bars on the steering wheel.

Suddenly my thoughts turned to the war. Was it really a fact? How should
I find my country? I confess to my shame that such was the intoxication
of speed, so great its power of tearing me from myself that I could not
concentrate my mind on that dreadful thought. At that hour I was wholly
indifferent to what the future might have in store for me.

A shaded electric lamp showed up every detail of the map, but Aurora
hardly looked at it once. She knew the way by heart I remember her
telling me that she had passed that way many a time when going to take
the waters.

She knew exactly at what point to make a detour round the towns whose
red halo emerged from the darkness to right and left, grew before our
eyes, was overtaken and disappeared in the night. Three or four times
she muttered: Cassel, Giessen, Wetzlar!

Cassel, Giessen, Wetzlar! What did I care?

The light from the lamp lit up a clock near the speedometer. But I could
not see the time. Thought had deserted me....

Without slowing down we went through a hilly town with houses hidden
among dark clumps of trees.

"Wiesbaden," murmured Aurora. "My villa," she remarked as we passed one
of these houses. "It's not yet one o'clock. We have come very well."

She turned to the right where the road forked. Far away on the left the
lights of a big city glowed in the night sky.

"That's Mainz," she said, "and here's the Rhine."

At top speed we crossed the sacred river by a suspension bridge. A dull
roar came up from below. Here and there, where the darkness was less
intense, we could see its green waters.

At the far end of the bridge we thought we heard an order. A hoarse,
"Who goes there!" Then, unmistakably, the sharp sound of a shot.

"They fired at us," said Aurora. "We must be getting near the frontier.
We must be a little more careful now."

I looked at the compass. We were going due west. The speedometer
registered 70. For the first time I had a real shock.

Aurora saw it and smiled.

"We were going 90 between Wetzlar and Wiesbaden," was all she said.

Soon another red glow appeared in the west.

"Thionville," said Aurora. "It must be crammed with troops."

To my great surprise I observed that she made no attempt to avoid this
town, as she had avoided the others. Our lamps were now lit and we were
making straight for the fortress, whose walls mounted higher and higher
into the sky.

The car slowed down. We passed houses, suburbs. Then came an imperious,
"Who goes there!" We stopped.

A dozen soldiers surrounded us. All of them were wearing the grey-green
uniform and covered helmet.

"Your papers," said the rough voice of a non-commissioned officer.

"I will show them to your officer," replied Aurora. "Please go and fetch
him."

He arrived in due course. He was a kind of blonde giant, very angry at
being disturbed in his sleep. When he saw we were civilians, politeness
vanished from his questions.

"Lieutenant," said the Grand Duchess dryly, "I must first ask you to
stop your men from breaking up my car with their rifle butts. Then
perhaps you will be good enough to look at this."

So saying she flashed the lamp upon the Lautenburg arms painted on the
door.

The officer started.

"Have I the honour of addressing Her Highness the Grand Duchess of
Lautenburg?" he said, stiffening to attention.

"You have, lieutenant," replied Aurora.

"I must ask Your Highness to excuse me," the man said in dismay. "Back
there!" he bawled to his men, thrusting back the foremost. "How can I
serve Your Highness?"

"Very easily," said the Grand Duchess. "I presume General von Offenburg
is still commanding at Thionville? I suspect His Excellency is not
asleep on a night like this. Be so good as to take me to him. Lend me
one of your men to come with us and show us the way."

The officer at once did what was required. He bowed very low, expressing
his regret that his duties did not permit him to conduct us himself.

The General in command of the fortress was not at headquarters, but in
the end we found him at the station with his staff. He was watching the
detraining of the troops at the platforms, which were literally black
with them. In the great square an enormous mass of guns projected their
antediluvian silhouettes on the night. I received an impression of sheer
numbers and brute force which made me shudder.

When an orderly officer had informed General von Offenburg of the Grand
Duchess's presence he came forward at once. He was a fine figure of a
man, in his long grey cloak with the scarlet collar. He bowed to Aurora
and reminded her that he had once had the honour of dancing with her in
Berlin. But with all his efforts he could barely conceal his
astonishment at our presence at that hour and in such a guise.

"Don't be too much surprised, General," said Aurora, with a smile. "As
soon as I heard of the great events in prospect in this quarter I felt I
could not remain at Lautenburg. I wanted to see and admire our men at
the frontier, and here I am, with my orderly officer Lieutenant von
Hagen, of the 7th Hussars," she said, presenting me.

I saluted as stiffly and punctiliously as I possibly could.

"Then why, Your Highness," exclaimed von Offenburg, "have you come this
way? There is nothing very interesting here. The 16th Corps is a rock
which nothing can move. Why did you not go round by Aachen?"

"Yes," she said. "That was suggested. Round by Aix-la-Chapelle ...?"

"Hadn't you heard that the whole army is being concentrated there?" the
General whispered.

"That's true," said Aurora. "But the Belgian frontier doesn't interest
me. I should never have forgiven myself if I had not seen the French
frontier at the very outbreak of war."

"I greet you as the intrepid colonel of the brave 7th Hussars," said von
Orenburg, kissing her hand. "Can I assist you in any way?"

"Most certainly you can," said Aurora. "Do you realize your sentries
arrested me off-hand just now? I ought really to ask you for an escort,
but I'm afraid my _Benz_ would be hard put to it to keep up with your
dragoons. May they take me as far as the outposts, and please give me
some kind of permit to save me from any more little accidents when I
come back. We must hurry on. It will soon be dawn, and I want to see the
first rays of sunlight on the frontier-posts."

The General had a permit brought. "There," he said, initialling it with
a flourish. "You've just got time. Villerupt, in France, is a mile and a
quarter from the frontier, and barely thirteen from here. You will be
there in less than half an hour. But don't expect to see any French
soldiers. Their Government has ordered them to withdraw two leagues from
the frontier, to avoid any accident likely to precipitate war," he
concluded with a coarse laugh.

Escorted by a half-troop of dragoons we made an impressive exit from
Thionville. When we had covered rather more than a mile on the
Audun-le-Roman road the Grand Duchess whispered in my ear:

"They are very kind, but I'm afraid we would find them a nuisance in the
long run."

And she let the car out to its top speed. Behind us, in the first faint
light of day, the dragoons were soon strung out, and, a moment later,
out of sight on the dark road.

The chilly breeze of dawn fanned my temples. My emotions now began to
overwhelm me. Indeed, at that moment I had not even a thought for her
for whom I would have sacrificed everything, the woman I was about to
leave for ever. I gazed before me at the little hills, which now began
to emerge, one by one, out of the yielding darkness. The amazing
originality of the manner of my return was forgotten, and I was
possessed by another sentiment, far stronger and more poignant.

I was wholly under its influence when the car stopped so suddenly as
almost to throw me on to the wind-screen. Without a word the Grand
Duchess pointed to a frontier post ten paces away on the right of the
road.

The spectacle of that six-foot post, one side white and black, the other
blue, white and red, was extraordinarily moving.

I looked at the Grand Duchess and a great joy filled me as I saw the
emotion in her set face.

It was not yet quite light. The car was now going very slowly. It was as
if Aurora wanted me to notice the little night flowers which trembled in
the wind on the sides of the banks.

Suddenly I caught hold of my companion's arm. The car stopped. Less than
two hundred yards away, at the top of a hill above the road, a
motionless horseman had just appeared, a dark silhouette against the
sky.

It was a French dragoon. We could see the buff cover of his helmet and
the red and white pennon on his lance. Then two more appeared, then ten,
then twenty, and they came forward at a canter to meet us.

"It is your turn to do the talking this time," said Aurora, with a
smile.

An officer came first. He was a tall young man, dark and rather pale.
His chin-strap drew a shining line across his black moustache. He
saluted us with his sabre and asked to see our permits.

"I must confess, monsieur," replied the Grand Duchess, "that I do not
possess anything of the kind, for I don't suppose you will be satisfied
with this which was given me by the German general in command at
Thionville," she said, showing von Offenburg's permit.

The young officer assumed an expression denoting that the occasion was
hardly suitable for trifling.

"Monsieur," continued Aurora, when she had satisfied herself at a glance
that for the moment I was completely unable to say a word, "there are
some things it would take too long to explain from a car to a horse in
the middle of the road. These are the facts. I am the Grand Duchess of
Lautenburg-Detmold. Monsieur Vignerte, my companion, is a French
officer, a lieutenant like yourself. I don't know whether in France you
have already taken the precaution of arresting Germans. But in Germany
we have been arresting Frenchmen since yesterday. This gentleman was
about to be arrested; I have brought him to you. That is all."

And, moved apparently by the look of amazement which had spread over the
dragoon's face, she added:

"I should, perhaps, say, monsieur, that I am Russian by birth, so you
need no longer doubt either myself or my immediate purpose."

The officer had dismounted. He bowed respectfully to Aurora, who had,
like myself, just stepped out of the car.

"Lieutenant de Coigny, 11th Dragoons, of Longwy," he said.

I introduced myself. We shook hands.

"You have come a long way, comrade. What shall we do with you?"

"You have a spare horse to lend him?" said the Grand Duchess. "Now, if I
may offer a little advice, take him at once to your civil or military
authorities. He has come straight from Germany, and knows much that may
be valuable to this country, where the flowers are lovely, but which is
never sufficiently on its guard, I think."

As she spoke she was looking at some wild roses hanging over the edge of
the bank. Lieutenant de Coigny plundered the thickest tufts and
collected a pink bunch which he handed to the Grand Duchess.

"Thank you, monsieur," she said, with a charming smile to the young man,
who was under the spell of her wondrous beauty. "Would you be good
enough to make your horses stand aside? The road is narrow, and I must
turn my car."

Then I utterly broke down.

Gone were my indifference of the night, my sudden emotion on entering
France once more. They were things of the past. One thought alone
obsessed me: in a quarter of an hour I should have lost her for ever.

Lieutenant de Coigny had made his men stand back. I heard the Grand
Duchess say to him in her soft, tender voice:

"Excuse him, monsieur, he has just suffered greater shocks than the war
will ever bring him."

And now I felt her hand on my brow.

"Courage, _ami_," she said, in low but firm tones. "You are going back
to your own home, your own fair land, a land I love. It will need you,
for the coming struggle will be terrible, much more terrible than you
can imagine. But you will know many glorious emotions, horses galloping
in the August sun; heaven-sent transports in which reason forsakes one,
everything, indeed, which could make a woman like myself regret I am not
a man.

"It will be terrible, very terrible. But over there, beyond the
frontiers, other horsemen are springing into the saddle, horsemen called
'Big Heads', with astrakhan caps, curving sabres and leaden whips, who
charge with their terrible cry of 'Huâ! huâ! huâ!' so that the
stoutest hearts fail and the strongest arms fling away their weapons the
better to flee the Cossacks of Tumene.

"Remember you have no cause for grief. And if you would have proof,
think of the fate in store for her who is returning to Lautenburg
without you."

"Alas!" I murmured through my tears. "Stay with us. Don't go back. Think
of what may happen to you there!"

I heard her voice and it was almost a hiss.

"Child, child, I thought that after knowing me so well you would have
learned a little of what hate can mean. Boose has come back. Have you
really forgotten the fireplace in the armoury, the letters from the
Congo, the whole treacherous mystery? Do you really think that just at
the moment when I am about to unravel the secret of the crime I shall
let the criminal go?"

My tears fell uncontrolled. Then suddenly a sensation of extreme relief
exalted my despair, as for one second I felt the touch of her lips upon
my forehead....

I started up with a terrible cry. Like one possessed I began to run
after her down the road till I stumbled and fell full length in the
ditch.

When I picked myself up, breathless and desperate, the car was nothing
but a tiny grey speck in the east.