Rains let him talk. This was something on which he had to reassure
himself. And there was only one way to do it. The fellow was in a
service department, somewhere in the distance. But Rains was certain he
could reach him.

"I spy," said the pin, triggered by telepathy. "I spy."

The second trip to the disposer had damaged the crystals grievously. It
had a vocabulary of two words and they never changed--but now they had.
An outsider would get the wrong impression if he heard the distorted
message. Rains clamped his fingers tighter on the emblem. But even that
relatively slight pressure forced the speech crystals closer. "I spy,"
cried the pin. It seemed thunderous.

It took prolonged mental effort for Rains to remember that what he had
to do was stop probing. The voice of the insignia was obligingly silent
when he disengaged his mind.

The eye glared at him suspiciously. "You say something?"

"Not a thing."

"Didn't think so, unless you can talk without moving your lips." The
eye disappeared and was followed on the screen by an unidentified lump
of flesh, possibly a nose. Then the eye reappeared. Perhaps it was the
other eye. "May have been tourist kids outside my window playing your
favorite American game."

Rains nodded in relief. The voice had seemed loud to him but not to
the other. His hands had smothered the reverberation. His nerves were
merely on edge. "They love baseball," he said politely.

"Not baseball," said the eye. "I believe it had another name once, Hide
and Seek. Now it's called I Spy." The eye blinked rapidly. "Well, so
long."

When he was alone, Rains thought swiftly. His brief mental contact with
the eye's mind convinced him he hadn't been observed in any suspicious
act. That went to the credit side.

He felt the emblem. It was definitely not an asset. He thrust it
determinedly into his pocket. He couldn't endanger his chances of
finding the one man in India who meant so much to civilization and
astronomy.

He rode down and went out of the hotel and onto the street.
Momentarily, he wished he could go back. But the pin drove him past the
long AFUA line.

In 1976 India was contradictory. In the last few decades it had
achieved industrialization not much below Western standards. But it was
densely populated and living patterns were not always equal to those
of Europe and America. Rapid technical advances created new jobs and
wiped them out again over night. A highly trained craftsman in the
morning was often an unemployed vagabond by noon. Until he was taught
new skills and could be reabsorbed back into the labor force he was an
Applicant For Unofficial Aid. His dignity was such that he was never a
beggar. Anyway, begging was forbidden by law.

Rains had no way of turning off his hearing. The best he could do was
to walk swiftly and try to ignore the pleas. A few left their position
in the AFUA line and trailed after him, but eventually they gave up and
returned to the hotel to await other tourists.

It wasn't difficult for Rains to adopt the mannerisms of a sightseer.
This was the vast motherland from which European languages and
nations themselves had come in the remote past; complex, bewildering,
containing the old while striving for the new. Cows in the streets
imperiled jet cars and pedestrians. On the pinnacles of skyscrapers,
holy men lay down on beds of nails while television cameras carried the
picture to faithful followers in remote villages. Beside hydroponic
gardens, fakirs mystified the curious with the ancient rope trick.

If his mission hadn't interfered, Rains would have liked to study
these mentalists for his own satisfaction. He was a psiman himself, a
powerful one, though of an elementary variety. He was a telepath, a man
of one talent with no other ability--a simple psiman.