Rains fished discreetly about. Not the least hint. But the nonsense
rhyme had influenced someone, and that person was now lost to him.

If he'd had the time, Rains would have liked to find and study the
unusual man who'd saved him with that green beard trick. An unorthodox
talent, limited but interesting. After the menace that hung far out
in space was ended, he would come back and search out his unseen
benefactor.

Regretfully Rains cancelled these interesting thoughts, and looked
around for his indefatigable AFUA follower. The man was gone,
despairing at last of wheedling more alms. Or perhaps he'd been
frightened by the strange occurrence on the street.

Rains wandered back to the hotel. Upon approaching it he stopped. The
AFUA line had grown longer, curling around the block, ending almost
where it began. It wouldn't help to go to the back entrance, because
the line was there too.

Rains lowered his head and plunged on toward the front entrance. A hand
touched his elbow. "Guide?" inquired a voice. Someone asking for work,
not money, was unusual.

The voice was faintly familiar. Rains swung around. It was the man
who'd handed back the emblem. For this Rains owed him nothing. And yet
he did. Because of this he'd been forced to find a better means of
disposing of it.

He did need a guide, but he hadn't intended to hire one until he got to
Benares, far to the north, where he hoped his search would end. The man
he had to find was completely unknown, and Rains had only faint clues
to go on, so he'd have to rely on his telepathic power to uncover more
information.

Rains beckoned and the man stepped out of the AFUA line, no recognition
in his eyes. "Let's see your license," Rains said. The man fumbled in
his turban and produced it.

Rains read silently, "Experience one year." Too bad. His mission
couldn't be trusted to a beginner. "I'll think about it," he said,
handing back the card. "If you don't find anything else, be here
tomorrow. I may come out." Tomorrow he'd be on his way to Benares.

The native folded the license into his turban and went back. He was
now at the very end of the line because he'd left his place to follow
Rains. He'd get little tossed to him today, and the coins Rains had
given him wouldn't buy much. Rains could sense despair.

Rains beckoned him back. "Do you have any other skills that might be
useful?" he asked. "What did you do before you became a guide?"

The eyes brightened, then faded in quick defeat. "Nothing you'd want,"
he mumbled. "For ten years I was a dyeman."

Rains thought back to the scene of the mental ambush. Beards. Green
beards. The dyeman had been near at the time.

"Dyeman?" he repeated, trying to keep the excitement out of his voice.
Even if it actually had taken place as he thought, it was only a minor
talent. But there was always empathy between psipeople, even though
their abilities might be unrelated. He could expect closer cooperation
from this man than from any other guide he might hire.

"I may be able to use you," he said. "Come in. We'll talk." He'd
discovered a new field for Rhine investigation. They'd mention it in
history books, after they described how he saved the world.