Of course. With so many nationalities and divergent beliefs, the
government had granted immunity from search to those religions, sects
and cults that demanded it. The place was safer than he thought. He
grabbed the Hindu's arm. "Down," he said.

Gowru grabbed his arm. "Up," he said. "We've got to see what they're
doing." It was logical. Rains reversed his direction.

On his way up the dimly lit tower, Rains collided with someone. From
the quality of her robe and jewels and the paint on her face, he placed
her as a high priestess of some sort. She smirked at him and beckoned
mysteriously; then swayed down the hall, apparently expecting him to
follow. Strange behaviour in a temple sanctuary. He shook his head and
went on after Gowru.

The Hindu had settled in a luxurious room at the top of the tower and
was looking out the window. The temple was surrounded. Not a soldier
had entered the grounds, but a solid cordon of armed men hemmed them
in. And dust in the distance down the road foretold of more to come.
The army wanted them for questioning. How they proposed to get them out
of the temple Rains didn't know, but the situation seemed as hopeless
as it could get.

With an effort he made his mind slippery and broke contact. A master
mentalist was at work. He resisted the impulse to leave the temple and
surrender. Tentatively he let his thoughts reach out. No, this was
merely a journeyman--the masters were on their way.

He turned in panic to Gowru, who was opening cabinets. Row after row of
expensive liquor glittered within. There was little resemblance to a
monk's bare cell; the place was more nearly a sybarite's palace. It was
a peculiar religion.

Gowru tilted back his head and gurgled. "Want a fog?" he asked. "I've
got the raw materials."

A fog wasn't satisfactory. They could elude the soldiers and slip away
in the confusion, but they couldn't hope to escape the mentalists.
On the other hand, yesterday the tank surface had repelled his own
thoughts. It should work.

"Can you put an impenetrable surface around us?"

"Won't work," said Gowru, wiping his lips. "It has to be a closed
surface, and if it's strong enough to stop anything it's also strong
enough to shear through any material in the way. Up here we'd topple to
the ground as soon as a gust of wind came along."

That was an aspect of the shield he hadn't guessed at. He fought
frantically for control of his mind. "Then put it around the whole
temple, grounds and all. Exclude the soldiers."

Gowru nodded. "I can do that. Within reasonable limits size doesn't
mean much, it's the principle that counts. I'll make it a big spherical
shield."

Instantly the room became gray, as light from the outside diminished;
but most important, the mental tension lessened. Rains looked out. It
was difficult to see through the shield, but he could make out dim
shapes. The journeyman mentalist tried to get through.

The shield was good, but a new force arrived; the masters were here and
added their mental force to that of the journeyman. Rains reeled under
the impact. "Make it more intense!" he shouted. "Give it all you've
got!"

Gowru grabbed at another bottle and gave it everything. The grayness
became blackness and the intruding thoughts of the mentalists, masters
and journeyman, disappeared altogether.

He relaxed. Temporarily, they were safe. He felt giddy and his stomach
squirmed around. There was no reason for this last effect--none that he
could think of....

Rains counted the bottles. It was not an accurate way to determine the
passage of time, but there was no electricity and none of the clocks
were running. He snapped on the flashlight. How many bottles equalled
one day?

He was getting hungry. He'd managed to scrounge some food in the
darkness, aided by the flashlight, but it hadn't been enough. On his
forays his contacts with the other humans in the temple had been
disconcerting. Giggles in the distance and then squeals, but he'd never
been able to come upon the source. He didn't blame them for being so
wary; the darkness and isolation must seem like something supernatural.