Rains was awakened by a rhythmical thud nearby. He jumped up and looked
around and then relaxed. It was Gowru pounding clothing on a flat rock
in a pool of brackish water. He had pulverized a native plant and added
it to the water, producing a reasonable imitation of soap.

Rains wrinkled his nose in disgust. The stench still clung to his body
in spite of attempts to wash it off last night before falling asleep.
Silently, Gowru gave him some of the soap plant, and he found another
pool to bathe in. He emerged feeling much cleaner.

The Hindu had spread the clothing to dry in the clearing. Rains lay
down and let the warm sun soak into his bones, pondering. They had no
food and couldn't expect to find much in the swamp. And after last
night there'd be soldiers around, combing the area, looking for an
explanation of the mysterious tank. Now he couldn't expect to enter
the Gommaf building undetected from the rear. They'd have to get back
to the road that led to the city and from there return to the hotel.
Afterwards, they'd have to plan anew. But for the moment, raw survival
was paramount.

The clothing soon dried. Dressed, the Hindu looked presentable, but
that was because his garments were exceedingly simple. The Western
synthetic fabric didn't launder well. Sadly, Rains looked at his
reflection in the water. He was rumpled.

They started in the direction they imagined the road lay, staying
within the cover at the edge of the swamp. On the plain there were
light tanks and armored vehicles, battalions of soldiers, planes
circling overhead.

Weary and hungry they struggled for hours through the swamp. At last
the wilderness ended. They crouched in the underbrush where the trees
stopped and gazed at a building, the front of which faced the road they
sought. It was a queer structure, a small-scale skyscraper with chrome
plated carvings.

If they could get to the building and then to the highway, they should
be safe. To get to the building was hardest. A few hundred yards away
platoons of soldiers wheeled in formation. They'd be spotted if they
tried to cross the open space.

He sighed. The soldiers might go away, but he couldn't plan on it.
What would work--another tank on the plain? It would attract them,
all right, but it would also be a signal to mobilize the entire army
and put it on guard duty in this area. A sovereign nation didn't want
strange tanks inside its borders.

He located the officer in charge of the drill. The sun was hot and
the soldiers were perspiring. The lieutenant was not a full-fledged
sadist, but he was studying to be one and didn't need much urging. The
cadence of command rose sharply. The men turned and began marching out
on the open plain.

Rains jabbed Gowru and, crouching low, they began to run toward the
building. The distance was greater than he had estimated; he was hungry
and short of breath and his mind wandered. He couldn't concentrate and
his control of the officer slipped away.

"About face!" screeched the lieutenant, and a half-hundred men were
staring at the fugitives.

It was too late to reach the road, but in the building lay temporary
safety. Rains dived over the low wall and Gowru followed. He ran across
the garden and, reaching a window, tore it open and climbed inside,
pulling the Hindu up after him.

As he turned to help, he stared in amazement at the soldiers. The
officer was blowing his whistle and shouting into the field radio, but
his men, who had darted after the fugitives, had stopped at the wall.
Gowru nodded and grinned. "Temple," he grunted.