The emblem weighed as heavily in his pocket as it did in his mind. So
far he hadn't found a quiet street on which to drop it. With so many
people thronging the city, every city in India, it wasn't going to
be easy. Nevertheless he wandered on, turning and twisting through
boulevards and alleys until he came to the ideal place.

He slipped his hand in his pocket, jingling coins, and came out with
the little talisman. He angled toward the curb and let it fall from
his fingers. He relaxed mentally as soon as he was rid of it. Sweepers
would brush it up and though it might attract another telepath's
attention it couldn't be traced back to him.

He swerved to miss a cow that ambled down the street and smiled
amiably. India was a romantic place, but it didn't conform to the
highest standards of civilization.

A hand plucked at his elbow. "Pardon."

Rains turned. He recognized one of the men from the AFUA line. He'd
been wrong; not all of them had become discouraged and gone back. Rains
appraised him quickly, a squat fellow, not very tall, but he made up in
width what he lacked in height. He wore a loin or ghandi cloth and a
remarkably ugly turban. It was the usual attire for this part of India.
His limbs, though not long, were of enormous muscular girth.

"I don't give alms," said Rains, tearing his gaze from the
fascinatingly horrible turban. Passers by were staring at the man too.

The native's eyes held the impervious look of the unemployed. "I didn't
ask, sir. You lost something." He held out his hand and the emblem was
in it.

Rains snatched it in dismay. The native's face seemed innocent enough.
Hesitating for only an instant, Rains made a quick mental stab,
feigning a coughing spasm while he did so. "I psi, pthi, spy," bleated
the pin. He jangled coins loudly and coughed harder.

Quickly he withdrew his mind. The Hindu didn't suspect a thing, though
his eyes widened at Rains' impromptu performance. It didn't matter;
he'd ascertained the other wasn't a telepath. Rains flipped a few coins
toward him, said thanks and walked away.

He glanced back. The native was still trailing behind, evidently not
satisfied with the reward. As long as the fellow was behind him, Rains
didn't want to drop the emblem again. And he couldn't keep it.

Another idea came up. From the hotel he'd seen a stream winding
through the city. It was yellow and muddy, an even better place for
the disposal of the tricky little item. He angled off until he saw the
river ahead, and noted that the native was still behind. He didn't want
to go through that again!

His mind whirred smoothly as he stopped and bought gum. Chewing was
not to his taste, but surmounting his dislike he peeled back the
wrapper and thrust the stick in his mouth. He saved the wrapper and
folded it over the emblem. As he crossed the bridge he tossed it, foil
and all, into the river. Let it yammer away, sinking deeper in the mud
or encysted in a crocodile's belly. Now it couldn't betray him.

But, in a way, it had. In his effort to get rid of the incriminating
article he'd overlooked other things. There was a mind laying heavily
against his. He struggled away, but for every retreat the intruder
advanced.

It wasn't actually entering his thoughts. It stayed outside, gradually
surrounding him. When had the invasion begun? He couldn't say with
precision, but it couldn't have been long ago. It was a heavy mind,
penetrating, not too acute. But it was endowed with brute strength and
it was suggesting thoughts he didn't want to have.

For instance, he felt an intense desire to seek a shady spot beside a
cool stream and lie down. Pleasantly textured grass would ease his skin
and flies would buzz harmoniously near, tickling sensuously as they
stung. Warm and moist. Fluid.

Rains was sweating. He had to shake off this insidious attack.