Perhaps he should, but too many fogs at this time would be suspicious.
He shook his head, "If you say you can deliver, I believe you. The only
question is, can you cover most of the city?"

"The whole northern part of India," Gowru assured him.

"That much won't be necessary. How long can you hold it?"

"Depends on the wind," said his guide, extending his thumb and
forefinger and rubbing them together delicately. "Air's slippery stuff.
It fades. I'll have to concentrate."

Rains sighed. He'd learned that when Gowru concentrated he had to be
diluted. He set out a bottle....

Rains walked along the bank of the Ganges and glanced at his watch. An
hour to sunset. The fog was due at any moment. The Institute was a few
blocks away, but he had memorized a map of the area and would be able
to get there no matter what happened.

He adjusted his tie in a mirror. No one behind him, but he didn't think
they'd be that crude about it here. He practised shutting off his
thoughts. His defense was adequate in America, but he wasn't sure how
effective it would be against a first rate Indian mentalist.

He went into a curio shop and picked up a small bronze statue of a
four-armed god. He was about to pay for it when the woman behind the
counter shrieked. He glanced up at her. She was merely a few feet away,
but he could scarcely see her through the thick black smoke that curled
through the room.

"Fire!" screamed the woman and ran out.

He hurried to the door and then thought of the statue in his hands. It
wouldn't do to get involved in a petty theft charge. He ran back to the
counter and laid the money down. On second thought he left the statue
there too and stumbled out of the shop.

The street was jammed. Storekeepers stood on the curb and shouted, and
out of the buildings thick smoke came pouring. Rains sniffed. It looked
like smoke but had no smell. He thought he knew what it was. This was
the fog Gowru had said he would create.

It was a good fog but it was placed wrong--inside buildings instead of
filling the free air overhead. It had the opposite effect from what
he wanted. He had expected to approach the Institute through dim and
shrouded streets. As it was, he had to elbow people into the gutter in
order to move. Fire sirens wailed in a dozen directions and spotting
copters took to the air and started circling around.

"Gowru!" he thought sharply, but either the distance was too great or
his thoughts were swallowed up by the multitude around him. Contact was
impossible.

He'd have to do the best he could; confusion might cover him. A fire
truck skidded to a stop beside him and frantic firemen coupled the
hoses and went to work. Drenched and swearing Rains fought his way down
the street.

As abruptly as it began, the smoke stopped. At least the drunken Gowru
had had enough sense to look out the window. Or maybe the sirens had
brought him around. Rains shuddered; he could almost see the contents
of the bottle diminishing as Gowru apprised himself of the mistake.

He was a block or so from the Institute and the streets were still
crowded. Some people had re-entered the stores as soon as the
smoke-like stuff stopped pouring out. Others, more fearful, remained
outside.

They didn't remain outside long. Overhead, in the sunset sky,
an ominous cloud formed. It descended rapidly upon the city.
Apprehensively, Rains watched the copters disappear into the dense
cloud, and then decided against worrying about them. Radar equipped,
they could trace their way through anything.