The boat slid swiftly and smoothly past the cremation barges anchored
in the river. The design of the barges was distinctive, two long
cylindrical pontoons connected fore and aft by beams which curved above
the surface of the water. In the middle of each pontoon was a squat
affair resembling a searchlight, each of which was focused inward
toward the open space at the center of the barge. Upstream was a long
line of small wooden rafts. One at a time they were allowed to float
between the pontoons. The searchlights flashed and the beams crossed in
the center. The raft burst into flame, water boiled for an instant, and
the corpse was utterly consumed. The barge was ready for the next body.

Rains glanced at the mechanism. No matter where he saw it, he'd always
be able to identify it. One of them was much newer than the others.
This was significant.

Gowru was scowling, so Rains refrained from mentioning the barges.
There were many religions in India, now more than ever, and each had
its own burial customs. Some rituals were offensive to other sects and
he saw no need to antagonize his guide over such a trivial matter.

They were both silent as the boat pulled up to the civic center pier.
Government offices and allied functions were situated together in an
annex outside the city proper; a sensible solution in a city as ancient
as Benares, but one which Rains did not particularly like. There were
just too many policemen and security officers around. He shrugged. That
was probably the least of his problems.

They mingled with the crowd, sightseers and officeworkers, that
rushed off the ship. In a few minutes they were in the center of the
government city. Police everywhere, but Rains didn't let that bother
him. Presently they came to an impressive building and he stood on the
sidewalk and pretended to admire it.

There were heavily barred windows and guards at the entrance. "Here it
is," he said softly. "We could walk in."

"This is just Gojmaf," grunted Gowru. "Mere journeymen. You want the
Guild of Master Mystics Mentalists and Fakirs--Gommaf."

Rains sighed; he'd not been as fortunate as he'd thought in contacting
the sleeping director's mind. He'd not gotten the name of the teleport,
but the organization to which that person probably belonged.

The Gommaf building was on another street and wasn't easily located,
but they found it. They sat at a sidewalk cafe and inspected it from
a distance. It was not a pretentious structure and there were neither
bars nor guards.

The absence of visible security measures was disturbing. It suggested
several possibilities: that there was nothing of value inside, that
Gommaf had complete confidence in the ordinary police patrol, or that
they relied on other means of protection. The last seemed likely.

It was a local organization and Rains had never heard of it. That was
not strange. There was much about India that had never reached the
Western world. There were records inside, the records of a teleport,
and he had to get to them.

He couldn't just walk in; somewhere there was a master telepath on
duty. Rains had confidence in his own ability, but he saw no point in
overmatching himself. "What do you know about Gommaf?" he asked.

His guide looked at the tea with less than delight. "It's fairly new,"
he said slowly, searching his memory. "Organized about ten years
ago, I believe. There was competition at first. Some of the mystics,
mentalists and fakirs thought they were outside the orbit of ordinary
trade unionism. They formed a rival organization and tried to eliminate
Gommaf's chief organizer, a man called Handas Bvandeghat. They found
him one morning while he was practising yoga, and of course he refused
to interrupt his spiritual contemplation. They riddled him with machine
gun bullets."

Rains nodded. "But they couldn't kill the idea. Handas Bvandeghat
became a martyr and the organization went on in spite of, or because
of, his death." It was a familiar story.

"Who said he died? Handas Bvandeghat is president of Gommaf."

"But they machine gunned him!"

"Sure, they shot him. But he's a fakir, still makes a living letting
people drive spikes through his body. What's a few bullets to him?"
Gowru swallowed the tea and made a face. "Of course, there were some
physical consequences. Even today Bvandeghat has trouble keeping food
on his stomach." Gowru wiped his mouth with the back of his hand.
"Holes," he added.