Gowru's eyes expanded, enlarged by his own inner fires. "Let's drink to
it," he said, extending his glass.

Rains sighed. As a secret agent he needed an analytically clear mind
at all times. But he also had to have someone who understood India
better than any American could, someone who would work with him
wholeheartedly. It wouldn't pay to offend such a person. He opened a
bottle, and later, still another....

The train wound through the provinces and cities en route--Bangalore,
Jubbulpore, Jetadore, finally arriving at Benares. They could have gone
more conveniently by air, every sensible Indian did, but presumably it
was worth something to maintain the pose of tourist and guide.

From the window of his hotel Rains could see the Ganges, a muddy,
sluggish river still, but an improvement over what it had been thirty
years before. More sanitary too; burial customs could not be completely
changed in a generation, but the three phoenix barges anchored off
shore automatically disposed of the bodies to the satisfaction of all
but the most fanatic.

Southward were the spires of a rather shabby building he could
identify from photographs, the Rhine Institute of the Ganges. Its
value was dubious, of missionary rather than research caliber. In
the heart of the mentalist country, it had little prestige and not
much more patronage. It was questionable who spied most on the
other, the American staff or the supposed native converts. Each side
took precautions, but there were startlingly few devices which were
effective against an accomplished telepath.

Still, mechanical devices partly reduced the advantages of the
Indians. Chewing gum parked in the right places often concealed
ingenious mechanisms, and even the birds which were regularly fed at
the Institute sometimes swallowed grain-sized instruments which were
carried impartially to all the public buildings of the city.

This didn't concern Rains. The Rhine Institute of the Ganges could
solve its own problems or fail to do so. But somewhere in Benares there
was a teleport. Where?

The regular reports--coded, scrambled, shielded, unshielded,
unscrambled, decoded--had mentioned great mentalist activity, but
hadn't been able to pin it down. Fakirs and holy men abounded; there
were at least a dozen telepaths in the city better than Rains, not to
mention clairvoyants.

Communication from the Institute had always been erratic,
understandable in view of the hazards. Rains had not seen a report from
this branch in three months. Perhaps in the interim they had uncovered
more information. He would have to find out. "Gowru," he asked, "are
there many fogs in Benares?"

The Hindu wrinkled his face in thought. "I've been here when there
were. Not now though; wrong time of the year."

That was not good. Rains didn't want to expose himself, but he had to
get in touch with the director of the Institute.

"If you want a fog, I'll get you one," said Gowru.

Rains glanced up. The Hindu was a queer fellow. Rains had dismissed the
talk of coloring the comet's atmosphere as drunken boasting, but what
if it wasn't?

"Can you actually create fog?" he asked doubtfully.

"Sure. Want a sample?"