Water was getting low too; only trickles came from the faucet. The
shield had severed all contact with the outside world, including
plumbing connections, and only a tank and a pressure system inside the
temple had kept them going this long.

He'd have to risk a look, perhaps the vigilance outside had been
relaxed. He shook the guide. Gowru grunted and stretched out his hand.
Rains shoved a half empty bottle in it; he had to conserve. The supply
of liquor was getting low, at least in this room. "Can you put a hole
in the shield, a small one?"

Gowru raised the bottle and later set it down. "Nope. Takes too much
thinking. How about a transparent area?"

"That will do."

Gowru staggered to the window, leaned on the sill and stared out. He
stared longer than Rains expected him to. "So that's what happened to
it," he muttered. He groped for a chair and sat down, shaking with
laughter.

It couldn't be that funny, decided Rains, going to the window. He
peered out and it was dark. Gowru had neglected to clear an area to see
through. No, there were dots of light outside--it was night, that's all.

That was not all. Very near, as astronomical distances go, and headed
toward them, was a comet. Not a comet, _the_ comet.

Rains sat down before he grew dizzy. What was the comet doing so close,
unless they were out in space? He opened his eyes and looked again.
That's where they were. Unless he was mistaken, that was Mars over
there.

He tried to fit the facts together. It made sense, but offered no hope.
He had proof that the shield was adjustable--stronger or weaker. As
it was made progressively stronger, it shut out light, bullets, and
thoughts. Could it be made strong enough to shut out gravity?

He looked outside. It could.

Gowru had exerted himself and the shield had sliced through earth,
water and sewer connections. Centrifugal force and the motion of the
solar system through space accounted for their present position. The
temple had whizzed away from the face of Earth before the astonished
eyes of the Indian Army.

Gowru was still laughing. He clapped Rains heartily on the back. "So
that's where it went," he said.

"Where what went?" asked Rains. They were doomed to be flung into outer
space and nothing could save them.

"The Benares cremation barge. It floated to the comet."

Float was hardly the word for the intricate process that had taken
place. Rains could see the comet, and he had known all along that the
barge was on it.

"What do you know about the cremation barge?" he asked.

Gowru fondled the bottle. "One day I was swimming in the Ganges and an
alligator--"

"There are no alligators in India."

Gowru Chandit gestured in defeat. "If you must know, I didn't have a
job and each night I swam out to the barge to sleep. I slept late one
morning and the crew found me and tossed me off. I had to swim in."

"But you always swam in anyway."

"Makes no difference," said Gowru. "So, when they left that night,
I projected a shield around the barge. Come to think of it, it was
probably like the one I've got around the temple. Anyway, in the
morning the barge had disappeared and no one, including me, knew where
it went--until now. The city had to buy another one to replace it."

Rains looked at him dazedly. That's what he'd seen in the
psiscope--the barge--and it was for this reason he'd come to Benares.
But it wasn't a teleport that was responsible; it was his own guide,
Gowru Chandit. Gowru hadn't known because he hadn't told him.