It was not such a familiar story after all, but it did emphasize the
difficulties. An organization headed by such a character would be
tough. The telepath to spot intruders, which had previously been merely
a possibility, became a certainty. An approach to the front entrance
was inadvisable.

But the comet was still hurtling through space and the only man who
could avert the collision was the teleport. Rains had to contact him.
He produced a map and consulted with his guide. After some discussion
they evolved a plan.

"If we come through the rear it's your opinion the telepath won't
detect us?" Gowru murmured, obviously doubtful.

"It's worth trying," said Rains, folding the map. "Behind the Gommaf
building is an electric fence and behind that is open country, mostly
swamp. Normally the swamp is considered impassable, but there is a
way through it. The telepath has to concentrate mentally just as you
do visually. He'll be expecting trouble from the front. I sneak in
from the rear, examine the records, and get out again before it occurs
to him that I've been there. After that I still have to contact the
teleport, but once I know who he is, that's easy."

"Why not rent a copter and set it down in the middle of the swamp? It
will save a lot of walking."

"It would, but it would also inform Gommaf that we're up to something.
No, we'll just have to walk." Rains stuffed the map into his pocket.
"Are there any shrines on the road to the city?"

Gowru Chandit shrugged. "There are shrines anywhere in India except
straight up."

Rains nodded with great satisfaction. There'd be one there too when the
hydrogen bomb exploded inside the comet. A bright flaring shrine to
astronomy.

The road was paved but dusty. There were other tourists walking toward
the city so Egan Rains and Gowru were by no means conspicuous. At some
distance from the civic center they stopped at a wayside temple. They
entered and examined the strange but not notable architecture, the
intricate but not always esthetically pleasing carved walls. When they
were not observed they slipped through a side door and hurried to the
rear where they plunged into the light underbrush. In half an hour they
were at the edge of an open plain. No one followed them.

After some discussion they decided to skirt the plain, and started out,
keeping well within the shadow of the trees which separated plain from
adjacent swampland. They circled back toward the civic center, toward
the narrow spot of firm ground that reached nearly to the electric
fence behind Gommaf. In the middle of the afternoon they rested and ate
some of the food they had brought with them.

"Psst!" said Gowru, waving his great hand.

Rains swallowed. "I don't hear anything."

Again the Hindu flapped his hand for silence. After listening
intently, he crawled away into the underbrush. Presently he came back.
"Soldiers," he whispered.

Rains was worried. Did that mean Gommaf knew what he was up to? And if
so, why did they send out soldiers? He could swear no one had tapped
his mind. "How many?" he asked in a low voice.

"Thousands."

Allowing for exaggeration, there were still too many. He picked up the
sandwiches, shoving one in his mouth and the rest into his pocket.
"Let's go," he said.

"Where?"

He pointed in the direction they'd been heading.

Gowru shook his head. "They're coming from there too."

That made it difficult. He looked questioningly at the swamp, but his
guide frowned. "Snakes," he said laconically. "Tigers, crocodiles."

That left the plain, but out there they'd be spotted instantly, and
picked up soon after. He couldn't afford to be questioned by anyone. He
could hear the soldiers. They were getting closer.