Again Gowru interrupted. "I was afraid of that--only a normal interest
in girls. You should moderate your desires. I can't help you with so
many." He shook his head sadly. "Let's get back to astronomy."

"I expect to," said Rains coldly. "As I was saying, at Palomar we have
the giant telescope--"

"The big inch," said Gowru fondly.

"You're thinking of something else," said Rains. "In addition to the
big telescope we have a secret instrument not duplicated nor imagined
elsewhere--a psiscope." Thoughtfully he poured the remaining whisky
into his glass.

"Don't ask me how it works. It's designed for use by people of psi
powers, of which I'm one. It's incredibly powerful and accurate. With
it we've learned things that other astronomers won't know for several
years. The data on the comet is one example."

He raised the glass and let the liquid trickle down his throat. "We've
also learned things that astronomers with conventional instruments will
never find out--that there are teleports in India."

Gowru struggled with himself, and decided to hoard the whisky in his
glass. He sipped delicately at it. "I could have told you that and I
don't have a psiscope. But how did you find out?"

"Imagine the comet swinging nearer the sun. Under the terrific
radiation, the frozen ball of water melts and the atmosphere expands.
In our psiscope, clearly illuminated, is an object no one else can see
at that distance. It is a peculiar object, man made, and found only
in one place on Earth." He paused. "At present we don't have a rocket
capable of going to the moon. And yet this object was transported much
farther. Therefore, it had to be teleported there."

"Logical," agreed Gowru. "What was this object?"

"I can tell you the city from which it came; you'll have to know
anyway--Benares. But my colleagues and I have decided we can't tell
anyone what it was we saw on the comet."

"Benares," mused the Hindu. "I know the city well. I was there last
year looking for work."

"With your help," said Rains, "we intend to contact this teleport."

"Who's we?"

"My colleagues and I at Palomar."

"And also your government?"

"Our government doesn't enter into this. We couldn't convince them if
we tried since they don't believe in psi powers. No, this is solely
our problem. We're financed in part by the Rhine Institute and we have
other funds which were diverted for the purpose."

Gowru sighed. No matter which way he tilted it, there wasn't another
drop in his glass. "What are you going to do with this teleport after
you find him?"

"Persuade him to come to the United States. We'll get him out of India
some way." The country wouldn't take kindly to an attempt to smuggle
out one of their mentalists, but it could be done.

"What good will that do?" questioned Gowru. "Even the most experienced
teleport can't change the path of the comet. It's too big to move."

"He won't have to move it," said Rains. "We've positive proof that he
did transport a--uh--large object to the comet. He did it once and he
can do it again, except this time it will be a hydrogen bomb."

"I thought so," said the Hindu disgustedly. "I don't want any part of
it. Where will you get that hydrogen bomb except from your government?
Let them develop their own teleports, or approach our country through
proper diplomatic channels."

"You're not thinking," said Rains. "With a teleport working for us we
don't ask the army for a hydrogen bomb. One minute they have it safely
hidden, and the next instant it's inside the comet. Let the military
boys worry about how it got away and where it went.

"You see, the comet's been captured by the sun and moves in a very
eccentric orbit just inside Jupiter. If we vaporize it now, it will
lose most of its mass to those two bodies. There'll be little left to
fall on Earth." He nodded approvingly to himself. The plan would be
effective, if he found the teleport.