First, he had to locate the source. Not the AFUA beggar. He was near,
but Rains had already ascertained he wasn't a telepath. The street was
now crowded with men and beasts. That was the trouble; there was no
easy way to pick out his assailant.

Which one? Rains glanced around. The white bearded ascetic next to him?
He was the holy hermit, telepathic type. But so were dozens of others,
most of them with luxuriant white beards. Rains probed, but got no
results.

In America he'd fenced off combined telepathic assaults of the best
of his fellows. He'd expected more competition in India, but this was
beyond his expectation. The defense he'd prepared seemed weak for what
it had to ward off.

An olive-skinned, dark-eyed girl went by with a gliding graceful walk.
With a little help from his imagination he could conjecture every
curve. It was sufficiently distracting. Me plus thee equals whee, he
thought swiftly. But this is hardly a Euclidean proposition, though I
would like our parallel paths to meet.

Was he too hopeful, or did the surrounding thoughts retreat somewhat?
The girl turned and retraced her steps. Me plus thee equals three, her
reply came back firmly. What do you have in mind?

She wasn't thinking along the right lines. There was a mental wedding
scene uncomfortably close. He went on, ignoring her opportunistic
suggestion.

I should have known, she thought frozenly when he didn't respond.
You're looking for another kind of girl. She took herself out of the
picture.

It was dangerous to spread his thoughts around. Something less personal
was in order. Nonsense was reputed to work. He searched and found some,
repeating it silently. I was thinking of a plan to dye my whiskers
green, and always wear so large a fan they never could be seen.

An ascetic, there seemed to be hundreds around, walked by. I was
thinking of a plan--continued Rains, his effort intense--to dye my
whiskers green....

The ascetic bellowed as a cow butted his side and began munching his
beard. A green beard! The Hindu squirmed and twisted loose, backing
away from the cow. The cow lollopped out her tongue and tucked a
whisp of beard into her mouth, chewing away as if on grass, which it
resembled. Purposefully she advanced.

The old Hindu scrambled away, clutching the remains of his beard. It
was now green, but it had been white. Rains could swear he had been
looking at it during the instant of change. The cow lurched after the
old man. She broke into a trot and the trot stretched into a gallop
and the two of them disappeared down the street.

All around there were men with green beards. It wasn't natural. They
stared at each other and then their eyes glided down. Muttering in
foreign tongues they stalked away. Rains could understand their
consternation. What had caused their beards to change? Did it have
anything to do with the rhyme?

But there was something more important. The mind that had been trying
to invade his had gone away. He thought back. The mental influence had
vanished with the cow.

An animal telepath? In India it wasn't totally unexpected. It was
the reason he was here. And the thoughts were those a cow would
have--internal evidence couldn't be ignored. It was frightening that
the cow was a stronger telepath than he, but it was also a source of
relief. At least the animal hadn't filched any secrets from him.

He had another conclusion to allay his anxiety. The girl he'd mentally
whistled at had been able to intercept his thoughts. Learning that he
wasn't interested in what she wanted, she had politely if frigidly
withdrawn. Mental courtesy? Well, why not?

Even in India there weren't many telepaths, say one in five or ten
thousand. But considering the density of population, that was a
lot. They had to evolve a code of mental conduct or life would be
intolerable. No one violated another's thoughts except for good reason.
If he watched himself, Rains thought, he'd have no cause for alarm. No
one would snatch his plans from his mind.

Rains walked on, wondering who or what had changed the white beards
to green. A powerful mind at work, but not the cow; he was certain of
this. Nor the girl.