Shopkeepers gazed at the sky, shuddered, and hurried inside. They
closed windows and doors and bolted them. The reason escaped him until
he observed firemen clambering into trucks which roared away as fast as
they had come. They wore masks, all of them. It was gas they feared.

The fool was compounding the mistake. A quiet, ordinary fog which
gathered inconspicuously in the hollows and low places and gradually
engulfed the city was what he wanted. This sort of thing was hardly
what he had specified.

There was no help for it, and as long as he had the streets to himself
he might as well go ahead. Before he reached the Institute the fog fell
on him with an almost physical impact. Streetlights winked on briefly
and were snuffed out as the fog descended lower, still burning but not
discernible at street level.

He shuffled slowly along, touching buildings. This kept him from
getting completely lost. There was no one following him physically, he
was sure of that. They could still keep track of him mentally and he
wouldn't be aware of it, but he doubted that anyone was interested in
him at a time like this. They'd be too concerned with the fog.

The dyeman was good--too good.

He stopped at a doorway, pressing his face close to the glass to read
the sign on it. It was the Institute, but he didn't intend to enter.

He stepped back from the door and squeezed behind a statue. He was as
close to the director as he could expect to get without being observed
by the spies on the staff. Telepathically he located the director's
office and whispered, also telepathically. There was no reply.

It took him a minute to determine why--the director was asleep.
It was better that way. The man wouldn't know he had come, taken
the information and left. He stirred around in the sleeping mind,
delicately so as not to awaken him. Then he had the information.

Gommaf was the man he wanted. Rains grinned to himself. Gommaf was the
teleport, or knew who the teleport was--he couldn't be sure which. That
was all he needed.

He wriggled out from behind the statue and walked quickly away. The fog
wasn't as intense as it had been, though it slowed him considerably.
Gowru must be getting tired. Streetlights were burning faintly overhead.

The fog changed color as he went along, an indiscreet slip. There was
a slight brown tinge to it that wasn't altogether pleasant. He walked
faster and his stomach felt upset.

Gowru was playing with the fog; that was the only interpretation Rains
could place on it. Colors shifted through the spectrum. He wished the
Hindu would stop it. A queasy, dirty violet didn't inspire confidence
in his own digestive system.

In the midst of all that violet, a low-flying biliously pink cloud
came toward him. He turned his head and gulped, but it didn't help
appreciably. In the direction he now faced there was a vile green fog
shape. It looked something like an appendix, but it was much larger.

He was wrong. Gowru Chandit was not playing--this was for keeps. A
valuable man, no doubt of it, but he drank too fast and couldn't
control his reactions.

As he looked, the appendix shape writhed slowly and glowed. Other fog
forms began materializing convulsively around him, not all of them
bearing morphological resemblance to human organs, but not necessarily
of more pleasing appearance because of that. And the colors--Rains
closed his eyes but the damnable fluorescence seemed to penetrate.

The river was nearby, for which he was thankful. He staggered to it,
lay down on the embankment, and retched feebly. The Ganges below
became less sanitary for a time. There were certain disadvantages to
psi powers, he reflected. This was the first time he had reacted to
another's nausea.

Later, he made it back to his quarters.