Gowru Chandit accepted the drink gratefully. Rains leaned back and
said, "Is this what you're trying to say? You first noticed your
ability when the dye didn't arrive at the textile factory. You had a
quota to meet. In panic you ran the cloth through anyway, and it came
out the color you wanted."

Gowru nodded.

"Can you tell me how you do it?"

The Hindu looped his hand near his head and shrugged.

Rains nodded. Any other answer would have been surprising. "What did
they say at the factory when you told them?"

Gowru grinned slyly. "Alas, I'm a poor man. I didn't tell them."

Rains could follow the man's thoughts as long as they were composed
in English. Alloted chemicals, Gowru smuggled everything out of the
plant that wasn't used and sold it to other firms. It should have been
profitable. "Why aren't you still with them?" Actually he knew the
answer. A new process had displaced the dyeman.

"I soon became foreman of the entire plant. I alone had charge of all
coloring. I was wildly prosperous, what with one thing and another. It
was my downfall."

"I don't understand." He did, but it was best to lead the man on, to
explore all possibilities.

"I drank," said Gowru. "I had money for it and I drank too much."

"And lost your ability?"

"It was not so simple," said Gowru. "No, my ability became stronger
than ever." He meditated briefly. "Picture me, the master dyeman
who alone colors all the material that passes through the plant. So
skillful am I, so beautiful the colors that the poorest cloth becomes
transfigured and commands premium prices.

"I arrive at work one morning and I am sick. I go into my secret mixing
room and lose my breakfast there. My head throbs. I raise it and look
at the chart. So much green, so much red and yellow, so much everything.

"The chemicals are there and I put them into the suitcase which the
management graciously allows me to take in and out of the factory. The
pipes which fill the various vats flow through this room. As I have
always done, I concentrate on the wanted colors, associating them with
the proper vats. But my head hurts, you understand. Alternately, it
grows large and small in defiance of the laws of physics."

Gowru Chandit paused to shake his head sorrowfully in remembrance of
that day. "I concentrate until all the vats are filled and then, as
usual, go to sleep. All day the automatic machinery hums. Yards pass
through the vats, bolt after bolt is dyed, dried and wound, and nobody
looks because this operation is automatic.

"Then, the manager comes to inspect production and rub his hands at the
profits that will accrue to him. He unwinds a sample, looks at it and
screams." Gowru stared mournfully at Rains. "Retroactive to that scream
I am fired."

"But why?"

Gowru loosened a fold of his turban and spread it out so the pattern
was visible. "I was projecting. Did you ever see such a headache
reproduced in full color? Not merely a headache, but also a hangover."

Rains moved the drink hastily away. He wanted to speak, but it might
be dangerous to open his mouth. The crisis passed. "Put it away!"
But Gowru had already refolded it so that the pattern was no longer
discernible. The cloth was an unpleasant souvenir.