V

                              _Knockout_


Came the day when Tommy Strike's stomach had butterflies in it. That
was not from hunger, although rations hadn't been generous. It was the
sensation that every fighter knows as the ring lights go on, and the
house darkens, and he awaits the bell for the first round.

They were all awaiting the bell now, tense and drawn-faced, as they
hid in the darkened lifeboat, ready for a bigger, more desperate fight
than any their prizefight pal, Kid McCray, had ever engaged in. Days of
anxious waiting were over. Miles above the tricky Neptunian satellite,
hovered _The Ark_, slowly descending, quartering in geometric pattern,
as the detectors sought the smaller craft.

Were they ready for battle? Strike wondered. Some crude knives and
knuckle-dusters had been made, and there had been some excitement when
they captured one of the weird-looking hairy creatures they called
Shaggies. Strike's enthusiasm for the experiment he and Kranz had
performed on the beast had waned.

It was admittedly a longshot, though even if it didn't succeed, they
would be no worse off than before. What it all boiled down to was an
ambush. Dacres and his mob would be expecting to find nine corpses, the
result of the murderous gravity. He was due for a shock.

It would be attacking proton-pistol-armed killers almost barehanded,
but they had the advantage of stunning surprise. And the captured
Shaggie just might help. It had been "doped up," as McCray expressed
it, and turned loose when _The Ark_ had finally come into sight. Now
it stood out there, a blot on the landscape, surely one of Nature's
mistakes.

Of course, the creature would inevitably attack any moving thing,
including unwary pirates, with vigor. But whether subsequent events
would conform with theory, was in the lap of the gods. And to them,
Strike, in the intensity of his desire to rectify what he felt to be
his fault, prayed fervently.

At length the time for wondering was over, for Dacres had finally
located the wreck and was bringing _The Ark_ down in a swift plunge, to
hover lightly a few feet above the surface, balloon-like.

"They sure handle it sweet," someone muttered grudgingly.

"They ought to. They've had plenty of time to practise." That was
Baumstark.

"S-sh! They might hear us!"

Minutes ticked away, as the gangsters in The Ark made their routine
tests. Then the ship came to rest, the main porte slid open, and the
entire vicious mob stood in the big lock staring eagerly out. All wore
gravity clogs.

Strike recognized Dacres at once, taller than the others, and anger
began to seethe in his brain like an acid bath, ran like liquor through
his veins. He felt his companions stir in the grip of that emotion, as
they peered through pin-point peepholes. He could literally smell the
hate as it sweated out of their trembling bodies.

"Not yet. Not yet," Strike whispered restrainingly. "Watch."

It was an ancient movie--jerky action, but no accompanying sound.
Outside, the Shaggie was going through its familiar routine, sliding
closer and closer, as it believed itself unobserved, to the men in the
lock entrance, amazingly like an enormous friendly puppy, afraid of a
kick, but hoping for a bone.

One of the gangsters, completely taken in, snapped his fingers at the
creature invitingly. Then, inevitably following its fixed emotion-habit
pattern, the Shaggie plunged viciously into action. Its initial rush
carried it right into the air-lock.

A fearful tangle ensued.