Strike thought it about time to intervene, so he stepped into the room.
There was a sudden silence of frozen attitudes and wary eyes.

"Oh, Captain Strike," Dacres said, relaxing. "Glad you're here. If you
overheard what's been going on, you realize that we have a stowaway
aboard with some peculiar notions in his head."

"I understand, Dacres." Strike tried to look sternly at the groggy,
clown-faced McCray. "Just how _did_ you get on the ship?"

"Well,"--McCray screwed up his face in thought--"Well, there was the
fight, see? First championship bout ever held on Mars. I win by a
kayo in the eleventh. Then we celebrated--parties, taverns, lots o'
girls.... Then I don't remember nothin' till a few minutes ago." He
looked very baffled. "Doncha believe me?"

Obviously, the various celebrants had somehow formed into one big party
during the gay evening. It sounded like a fight night. There probably
had been a fight. But as for a man with a face like McCray's being a
champion--

Strike and Dacres exchanged sad smiles, and Dacres made a cranking
motion with one finger to his temple.

"Perhaps a few weeks' work will straighten out your thinking, McCray,"
Strike said. "We'll go and see my partner, and you'd better act
sensibly because technically you're subject to severe penalties. Here.
Slip these on."

He kicked over a pair of gravity clogs--thick metal plates containing
a power unit to adjust the wearer against differing gravities. Straps
fastened them to the feet. Everyone else was wearing them. They enabled
scrambled-ears McCray to follow Strike and Dacres up the long corridor
to the elevator leading to the flight deck.

Tommy Strike noted with satisfaction McCray's reaction, as the
pugilist's eyes fell on the glorious, copper-blond beauty of the ship's
famous mistress.

"Holy Smoke!" McCray goggled at her. "You're Gerry Carlyle!"

In the questioning silence that followed, Strike explained.

"We have a stowaway, Gerry," he said. "Unintentional. Says he came
aboard by mistake in a moment of alcoholic aberration. No one of
us realized he wasn't one of the new men. He seems to be a bit
punch-drunk."

The uninvited guest snapped out of it with a roar.

"Punch-drunk?" he yelled. "Listen, you! I'm Kid McCray, middleweight
champ of Mars! I got influence, an' if you don't take me back to Mars
right now, there'll be trouble!"

Strike, Dacres, and Gerry Carlyle doubled over with laughter.

"O-oh-h!" gasped the girl. "Those Martian liquors! I've heard they
frequently bring on delusions of grandeur!"

However cool a ringman McCray might once have been, he had now had too
much. He advanced vengefully upon Strike, his every thought written
plainly on his battered face. Remembering his earlier experience, the
fighter shuffled forward with determined caution. As a result, Strike
found him practically a sitting duck.

Being in the light-heavyweight class, Strike promptly accepted the
challenge and clubbed the intruder with a whistling right cross.

McCray spun round, fought clumsily for balance on the gravity clogs,
then crashed, bouncing his head off the binnacle. "This just ain't
possible," he muttered faintly.

"The 'champ,'" Dacres declared in an amused voice, "isn't so good with
the foot-work this morning."

"Overtrained, perhaps," offered Gerry.

There was more gaiety.

"Well, we can't put back to Mars, of course," Strike said then. "Better
put him to work."

Actually, Strike was not at all sorry. McCray was probably in for some
amusingly rough and humiliating hours. He would be assigned to the
most menial tasks. He would be referred to derisively as "the Champ."
He would have to learn that Space Law dealt ruthlessly with men with
too-ready fists. But _The Ark_ was on a grim mission, and Strike felt
sure that McCray, once he found his place, would be good for many
tension-relieving laughs....