She slumped. Though Gerry was vigorous and athletic, her frame was
never intended to sustain the ordeal it was subject to now.

Strike saw the others, especially McCray, were taking it fairly well.
Most of them had endured several Gs for short moments while stunting or
test-flying, but none had ever experienced anything like this ceaseless
drag which crushed the chest and threatened to pull the very flesh away
from the bones.

Sweat blinded Strike momentarily, and with a leaden hand he wiped it
aside. Triton, pale and featureless, loomed large now, revolving with
visible motion. The crisis was at hand. The tiny lifeboat plunged with
sickening speed, and Strike fought the controls with corded muscles.
The jets blasted full in a savage battle against the gravity, and it
took all Strike's skill to keep the ship from rolling off its delicate
position atop that vital column of flame.

As the craft thundered in over the swiftly sliding terrain, only luck
averted disaster, for Strike's anchored fingers were too slow for the
exacting manipulation of a landing. The craft plowed in fast and hard,
swathed in flame, skidding with bone-racking jerks.

The lifeboat made one complete somersault and came to rest--right side
up.

The nine castaways sorted themselves out, untangled broken safety
belts, stood up, and--suddenly, the realization of a miracle dawned
upon them!

Like a bestowing of a soothing, deific benison, the grip of that
terrifying, crushing gravity was gone. Utterly gone!

They weighed no more, apparently, than they ever had on Earth!

Each gave thanks or expressed his joy in his own way, but the dominant
emotion was aptly expressed by McCray.

"Gosh!" he said. "I don't get it!"

None of the men understood the phenomenon, but a horrible suspicion was
growing in Strike's mind. He turned to stare at Gerry, who had revived
at once with no ill effects.

"You knew this was going to happen!" he said accusingly. "That's what
you meant when you babbled about Dacres and his mathematics. Why
didn't you tell us, spare us some of the mental agony?"

"Sorry," Gerry blushed faintly. "But I wasn't at all sure. It would
have been an awful disappointment if it hadn't come off."

"Never mind that. What's the angle? Out with it! How come?"

Gerry grinned in reply to this bombardment of queries.

"Patience, m'lord, and I shall demonstrate." She found pencil, paper,
and slide-rule and commenced calculating. "The key to the problem
is the fact that Triton's rotation, once every forty-five minutes,
develops a centrifugal force at the equator, the thrust of which
neutralizes the pull of its high gravity. Now suppose you weigh a
hundred and fifty pounds."

"But I weigh a hundred and eighty-three," objected Strike.

"Okay, okay. Just pretend, hunh? So you'd expect to weigh three
seventy-five here. But--" Gerry scribbled.

    weight = 150 pounds

    diam. of Triton = 3000 miles = 1.584 × 10^7 ft.

    radius of Triton = 7.92 × 10^6 ft.

    gravity = 2.5 g

    rotation 45 minutes.

    N = 1/45 = .0222 rpm

    [Greek:Omega] = 2[Greek:Pi]N/60 = .00233 rad/sec]

    m = 150/g = w/32.2 = 4.81 slugs

"A slug is actually the name of the engineering unit of mass," Gerry
interrupted herself to explain--quite unnecessarily as most of the
others were well grounded in math.

    Centrifugal Force = mr[Greek:Omega[1]]^2 = 4.81x(7.92)x(2.33)^2
    = 207 lbs.

    net weight = 2.5(150) - 207 = 375 - 207  = 168 lbs.

[Footnote 1: [Greek:Omega] is the omega symbol.

"So!" Gerry concluded triumphantly. "We weigh only a few more pounds
at the equator here than we do on Earth, despite the high gravity. The
closer we move to the poles, the more we'll weigh. Of course, I have
only a five-inch slide-rule, and the figures may be correct only to two
significant figures, but you get the idea."

"I guess we get it, all right," Strike muttered, still a bit miffed
that Gerry had kept it to herself when they had so desperately needed
a ray of hope. "So long as we maintain contact with Triton's surface,
we're safe. But the moment we lose contact--uh-uh!"

Intrigued by the thought, Barrows experimented with a little upward
jump. He promptly came down with a teeth-rattling jolt. No one ventured
to duplicate the demonstration. They were effectively held by unseen
chains.

"Say!" Strike had another idea. "Dacres will be dropping in again in
a few days to write our farewell message for us. If we can rig up a
welcome, maybe there'll be a surprise ending yet to the draymah of
'Gerry and the Pirates'."