Mouths popped open in soundless cries. Faces grimaced in sudden terror.
Dodging madly about, the men fought to retreat into the main corridor
of _The Ark_.

The Shaggie's second blind, slavering rush took it right along with
them, and someone went down. There was a nasty moment before a proton
bolt blasted the Shaggie quite literally to bits, flooding the
passageway with its evil-smelling, vital fluid.

"This is it!"

Strike's voice was suddenly sharp and triumphant. A spate of grimly
vengeful men, with Kid McCray in the lead, poured from the lifeboat
and ran toward _The Ark_. Finely trained fighting men that they were,
they didn't even pause at the astounding sight that met their eyes.
From out of The Ark's open porte came billow after billow of dense
white smoke. It was as if the entire ship's interior had suddenly begun
to burn.

As the crew dashed across the short intervening space--they had
left off their pressure suits for sake of freedom of action--Strike
breathlessly explained in triumph:

"The smoke's harmless! Don't be afraid! Hexachlorethane in the Shaggie
reacts vigorously with metallic zinc in the zincal floor and forms zinc
chloride. Reaction liberates such great heat that the zinc chloride is
immediately evaporated, and a dense cloud o' white smoke is generated!"

As Strike fought for breath, he saw the man called Monk stagger out
of the blinding smoke into view, squarely in the path of the charging
McCray. Without even slowing, McCray let drive with a frightful blow, a
concentrate of days of fear and hunger and hate.

The blow caught the man squarely in the pit of the stomach, and through
a momentary thinning of the smoke, the astonished castaways saw Monk
go sailing clear through the air-lock and across the corridor to smash
sickeningly against the far wall.

The truth dawned instantly. The piratical gang had adjusted their clogs
to handle two-and-a-half Gs. Consequently, they were only flyweights
now, not having had time to discover the facts of the gravitational
situation.

With a howl of pure joy, Strike plowed after McCray into the wild
melee that surged savagely through the white murk, throwing haymakers
at everything in reach. If he hit someone who was solid, he muttered
apologies and sought a new target. If his victim vanished from sight in
the smoke from a single punch, he eagerly followed it up.

The end of the battle was a foregone conclusion. Completely surprised
and disorganized, Dacres and his gang were overwhelmed. Only half
realizing they were being attacked by men supposedly flat, frozen
corpses, and not daring to use their guns for fear of hitting their own
comrades, they were scattered, beaten senseless, and disarmed in three
incredible minutes of fighting against phantoms.

Only two escaped that first onslaught. They fled down _The Ark's_
endless corridors, firing around corners in a deadly, sniping
rear-guard action at their relentless pursuers. Strike, with the aid of
captured weapons, quickly laid out a foolproof campaign against the two
remaining pirates.

The pirates were driven to the ship's stern by constant threat of being
outflanked, as the crew of _The Ark_ infiltrated through dark side
passages and storerooms. Then, with the arsenal room in his hands,
Strike ordered anesthetic bombs broken in the ship's ventilating
system. Everyone donned masks. Presently, the two diehards were
captured as they slept soundly, faces flushed, in the galley.

The battle was over. Gerry, who had stood apart from actual combat by
Strike's insistence, rewarded the valiant victors with a kiss for each.