Tommy Strike examined his sweaty palms, marked where the nails had dug
in when he fought down the suicidal impulse to fling himself at Dacres'
piratical crew. Then he looked around the cramped confines of the tiny
lifeboat.

Though intended for six, nine persons were packed in the craft. Save
for the slap-happy boxer, McCray, whose heart was certainly bigger than
his brains, all the occupants were intimate friends, welded together in
a unit by adventure and danger, failures and successes. Young Barrows,
Kranz, Baumstark--with all of them their proudest boast was that they
were envied members of Gerry Carlyle's entourage.

And now had come the ignominious end of the trail. After each recent
hairbreadth exploit, Strike had vowed he would wed Gerry and they
would settle down on some peaceful suburban estate. But the demons of
excitement in their blood had not been conquered. So, seemingly, the
pitcher had gone once too often to the well. Death was the end of this
adventure, sure and horrid. And Strike felt himself to blame.

The seething silence, brought on by the enormity of Dacres' daring to
lay a hand upon their beloved leader, was broken by Kranz.

"I hear the gravity down there is two-and-a-half Gs," he said. "We
might as well make a break for it right now. Go down fighting, anyhow."

Strike shrugged.

"It's no use. Dacres has--"

A sudden thought made Strike examine the fuel gauge, but though there
was enough fuel to take them to Triton, there was not nearly enough
to enable them to try a dash for the nearest outpost in the Uranian
System. He ground his teeth.

"No, that bird has thought of everything," he sighed. "I said that the
first day I talked to him. It's still true."

"Exception, please," Gerry interposed suddenly. "Mr. Dacres has
forgotten one thing--mathematics. Just take it quietly, men. Our inning
may yet come."

Tommy Strike and the others stared at her, forlorn hope fighting with
despair. He couldn't see any value in calculus when a man suddenly
found himself crushed to the ground by a weight of four hundred and
fifty pounds. It would be a task even to pick up a pencil. He was
about to argue the matter when a sudden lurch threw them all into a
tangle at one end of the little rocket-car. It was too late for debate
now--Dacres had thrown the lever catapulting the lifeboat into space.

To the tiny craft's left, and slightly above, _The Ark_, enormous and
glittering, receded with uncanny effortlessness. Below and to the
right, dollar-size in the cold blackness of interstellar space, the
Siren Satellite beckoned irresistibly.

Strike slid into the pilot's seat, for once at a loss as to what to do,
and stared at Gerry questioningly. She nodded.

"Triton," she said.

The tubes bucked with miniature thunder, as Strike deftly manipulated
the controls. It was but a three-hour journey, but it loomed as the
most frightful three hours any of them had ever dreamed of enduring.

While still an hour out from Triton, the pull of that mighty gravity
was already making itself felt. If anyone had occasion to move, he took
slow, ponderous steps. The increasing weight was endurable while lying
prone, but even so there were whimpers, as invisible but relentless
fingers seemed striving to tear loose the internal organs themselves.
Barrows was suddenly sick on the floor, and the sight promptly urged
three of the others to follow suit.

Strike wound a coil of light rope around himself as an abdominal
support. It afforded some relief, but nothing could take the terrible
strain from his heart, as it laboriously fought to pump the sluggishly
heavy blood through pinched veins. He speculated dispassionately on how
long a heart would hold up.

He glanced at Gerry. She lay with her face hidden in her arms,
breathing asthmatically. Slowly, her head raised, as if it weighed a
ton.

"Tommy," she spoke thickly, with a tongue that would not obey. "I'm
going to--pass out. Head toward--equator--"