The life of Manton became now a succession of the “to-morrows” of
remorse. Each new sun arose upon its succeeding scene of wilful,
self-degrading excess, such as we have witnessed. He never permitted
himself to grow fully sober, but drank incessantly—morning, noon and
night. But that the wines he chose were comparatively light, and
less rapidly fatal than the heavier and more dangerous drinks of our
country, he must have, undoubtedly, destroyed his life, as he did his
business reputation.

He still wrote brilliantly—nay, even with a fierce and poetic dazzle
of style that surprised men greatly, and added much to the notoriety,
if not to the solidity of his reputation. But everything went wrong
with him. His purse was regularly drained by a remorseless hand; his
wardrobe fell into neglect, and the marks of excess upon his fine,
proud features, were at once rendered conspicuous by their association
with almost seedy habiliments.

Before one year had passed he had begun to exhibit himself before men,
in the pitiable light of one who had more pride left than self-respect.
In a word, he had fallen fully into the toils of the hellish Jezabel.

Remember, in judging of poor Manton, that while he is hoodwinked,
through much that is most noble in him, _we_ see this woman through
the strong light of day. He looks upon her as a devotee of science,
in the holy cause of human progress and social amelioration. A poet
and enthusiast, his life is dedicate to both. He regards her as a
frail being, whose life hangs by a thread, and that thread held in his
own hand—degraded into a false relation to himself—a relation which
he loathes, to be sure, and which he feels to be heavily and swiftly
dragging him downward, every instant, while it lasts, but which he
dare not utterly break, for the fear that that frail thread of life,
of which he has so strangely become the holder, should be snapped.
He has only seen her, through her representations of herself; and
therefore, all that is chivalrous and tender in him has been aroused in
her defence, as the white roe, hunted into his strong protection for
defence against the demon hounds of New England bigotry, jealousy, and
fear. Apart from all other considerations, these were sufficient to
compel an utter negation of self, in all that related to her, as well
as a hasty dismissal of those suspicions that might thrust themselves
upon him.

A house, in the meantime, had been taken for her in Tenth Street,
for the rent of which Manton and the benevolent Doctor Weasel were
to become jointly responsible. But the woman was far too astute
to permit any such entanglements as might lead, prospectively, to
mutual explanations between her victims. The Doctor alone ultimately
became her endorser for the rent. She had other designs upon the less
plethoric purse of Manton.

In entering upon this arrangement, Manton had been induced to believe,
by her own representations, that for ten years before the name of
Preissnitz had been heard of on this continent, this woman had been
practising water-cure among her women patients. Manton had been
sufficiently educated in the profession, to understand that its general
pretensions were essentially empirical. He was too much an Indian,
indeed, and had lived too much among Indians, to regard anything beyond
the simplest natural agents as efficiently curative. He therefore
recognized what Preissnitz had discovered, as simply confirmatory of
his experience of the usages of savage life, and his own observation so
far as it went. It contained not to him any more than any other pathy,
the essential _vis medicatrix_ of nature; but it seemed good to him,
because it was new to the popular sense, and was well worthy to be
urged upon its recognition, and thus to find its proper place among the
other systems.

He entered upon the project with the fullest enthusiasm, for this woman
seemed to him, from her personal habits and untiring energy, to be
specially set apart to preach the crusade of physical cleanliness to
her sex. The house was therefore occupied by her as proprietress and
female physician, while Manton, Doctor Weasel, the fiery Jeannette, and
victimised Edmond, of a former scene, occupied respective chambers as
boarders, and patrons of the new enterprise.