Another scene. The mother reclines upon her bed, and the child Elna by
her side, with arms around her neck and face against her bosom. Moione
stands leaning over the foot-board, with folded arms, her pale face
expressing mingled grief, anger, and pain, while she looks with a cold,
steadfast glance into the oblique eye of the woman, who addresses her
rapidly, in bitter tones—

“You love that bad man, Moione?”

“Yes, I do!” said the young girl, curtly and coldly.

“Ha! you acknowledge it, do you, ungrateful girl? Acknowledge that, at
your age, you love a profligate wretch like this? a man utterly without
principle, where our sex is concerned. A villain, who has already
attempted the ruin of my own daughter, under my very eyes!”

Moione turned paler still at this, and looked inquiringly towards her
friend Elna, who, however, gave no sign, either by word or movement,
of dissent to this vile insinuation. Instantly the blood mounted to
Moione’s brow, and her gentle eye shot fire, her thin lips curled with
scorn—

“It is false! It is false! You know it to be so! He has taught us
nothing but what is pure and high! He never breathed a thought of evil
to either of us, and Elna _dares_ not say so! I love him as our lofty,
noble brother, and shall continue to do so so long as he shows himself
only to me, and to her, as he has done! Pray, madam, why do you permit
him to remain in the house, if he be so wicked? You tell me you have
the power to turn him out at any minute. Why not do it? Why do you
trust your child with him, at all hours, and under all circumstances?
Why do you so constantly seek his society yourself? If he were the
fiend you represented, one would think you would have reason to fear
for yourself, if not for Elna. What he has done once he will do again!
How do you reconcile all this?”

The flashing look and withering tone in which this unexpected outburst
of indignation, on the part of the usually quiet Moione, had been
delivered, cowed the craven nature to which it was addressed. It was
but for an instant, though; her subtle cunning returned to the charge,
in a lower tone, and on another tack. She reached out her hand,
affectionately, towards her—

“Come, Moione, dear! come, kiss me!”

The child did not move, but merely answered in a low, contemptuous “No!”

The woman continued, in a wheedling tone, “Hear! my naughty Moione!
She will not come to kiss me, when I love her so! Moione does not
understand everything she sees, or she would not have spoken thus
sharply to her friend. She does not understand that I am striving to
save this poor youth from his frightful vices! his wine-drinking, his
tobacco, his meat-eating, and all those ugly sins which so deface, what
I hope one day to see a beautiful spirit! She does not know I must
endure this evil that good may come! She does not realise how much pain
it costs me to have the purity of my household thus desecrated by his
poisoned sphere! She does not remember that God has placed us here, on
this earth, to bear and forbear towards his erring children; that they
may, through us, become regenerate and redeemed! I know his eloquence,
I know his subtlety, therefore I have warned you against him; he cannot
be dealt with as other men, for he is but a foolish, headstrong boy,
with a great soul, if he were only free; but while his vices hold him
in bondage, he is not to be trusted. Though I have lifted him out of
the very gutters of debasement—given him a home in my house—I have no
confidence, at this moment, that he would not deliberately ruin either
you or Elna to-morrow, if he could! You should, therefore, rather pity
me than be angry with me, dearest Moione!”

“So I perceive!” said the young girl, with a cold sneer, as she turned
and walked haughtily from the room, slamming the door emphatically
behind her. The woman sprang to her feet, with an expression of
ungovernable fury in her face. “The insolent, ungrateful wretch! This
is what I get for all my trouble to make something out of her—to render
her of some value to me! To sa-a-ve her!” and she hissed out the words
with a horrible writhing of her features, while the pupil of her
oblique eye was wrung aside, until nothing but the white, ghastly blank
of the ball was to be seen.

“Yes, I’ll save you! I’ll use you, you insolent beggar! I have not
brought you here, alone, as the ant carries off the aphide, to give
spiritual milk to my own offspring! I brought you to use, too, and use
you I will! I will _coin_ you into profit! I’ll humble your insolent
airs! I’ve got a market for you already, and a bidder! Dare to cross
my path, ha?—with your supercilious insolence? I’ll bow that white
forehead! I’ll fill those blue eyes with ashes! until, bleared and
rheumy with premature decay, you crawl to kiss my foot for favors!”

During this horrid apostrophe, the woman had stood stiffened where she
had first planted her feet upon the carpet, staring blankly at the door
through which the young girl had passed, and throwing her arms out in
wild gesticulations after her.

The girl Elna lay, in the meantime, with her face half concealed
in the pillow, closely watching, with one sharp eye uncovered, the
whole scene. The woman, who had forgotten herself in her fury, turned
suddenly and saw her. Her manner instantly changed. She threw herself
by her side, took her caressingly into her arms, drew her face close to
hers, breathed upon it long and steadily, and then commenced in low,
confidential tones, a conversation between them, the purport of which
we must leave to conjecture.