The sequel to this particular story is a short one. The young man
revived with the change of a single nutritious meal, and with it
returned the courage of even the trodden worm; for he now stoutly told
the Spiritual Professor that, unless he furnished him with ample means
to support life, he would not touch an another figure of the immense
and complicated calculations on which he had been so long engaged.

   [2] Incredible as it may seem, we pledge our personal veracity that
   this bald and silly narration, which appears to be merely a foolish
   burlesque, is a _bona fide_, _et literatim_, _et punctuatim_,
   transcript, as close as it is possible for memory to furnish, of
   stories that were, at least as often as five days out of the seven,
   related at the dinner-table at which Boanerges presided, to long
   double lines of gaping women, who, obedient to the irresistible
   spell he bore, had followed up this maudlin Proteus of Professors,
   as disciples of water-cure, through his latest metamorphoses, into
   physician of such an establishment in Boston. It was _thus_ he
   exhorted them to faith, and encouraged his backsliders.

The Professor, of course, resisted to the last, and quoted the
correspondences upon him, with desperate fluency. But when the young
man coolly seized the manuscript on the table before him, and held it
over the flickering flame of the miserable dip candle, which had now
been of necessity lighted, the Professor sprang forward to arrest his
hand, shrieking—

“I will! I will! for God’s sake, stop!—how much do you want?”

“Five dollars a week!” was the cold response, as the flame caught the
edges of the paper.

“I’ll give it! I’ll give it! What fearful extravagance! My God! put it
out!”

“Pay me five dollars at once,” said the other.

“Here it is—here it is!” and he jerked, in his excitement, from his
pocket, a dozen gold-pieces of that value, and dashed them upon the
table.

“Take your five dollars! put it out!”

The young man quietly swept the pieces within his reach into a drawer,
which he at the same moment opened; and, extinguishing the margin of
the manuscript, which had burned slowly from its thickness, he replied
deliberately to the Professor, who had shrieked out—

“Do you mean to rob me?”

“No, sir! but I mean to keep this money, and if you approach me, I
shall destroy this manuscript if it cost me my life. You have starved
and outraged me long enough; you expect to make a fortune off my
labors, and kill me with famine just as my work is done. But with all
my humility, abstraction and patience, this is too much! I am roused at
last, in self-defence, and you shall find it so!”

The Professor sank into a chair as if fainting, and for some moments
continued to mutter, with more than the magnanimity of a sick kitten—

“To think! Robbed! All my generosity! The ruffian! Here, to my very
face! What have I gained by saving him?”

This last expression was gasped out, as if the vital breath of the
speaker was passing in the final spasm.

The scene need not be prolonged. The valorous Professor crept away,
cowed beneath the cold, firm, lustrous eye of the now aggressive
victim, whose enthusiasm for science and earnest self-dedication, had
heretofore kept him blinded to a full realisation of all the monstrous
iniquity which had so long been practised upon his abstracted, meek,
and uncomplaining nature. He now determined to take his life into his
own hands, and saw clearly through all the shallow and ridiculous
pretence of patronage and “saving,” by which his single-hearted fervor
had been beguiled.

In a few days it was announced to the Professor, whose faith and
spiritual strength—the same that had scared off the wolves when he fell
among them—had in the interval been restored to their equilibrium, that
the great work was now completed, and the announcement was accompanied
by a proposition on the part of the young mathematician to sell out
to him entire his copyright share in the whole enterprise, at a price
so comparatively insignificant, when the Professor’s own florid
anticipations of future results were considered, that he sprang at the
offer eagerly, and thus possessed himself at once of the “golden goose.”

The young mathematician disappeared, and the Professor was left
exulting in the sole possession of what seemed to him, in vision, the
nearest representative of the gold of Ophir, not to speak of California.

The idea of the young mathematician was, in itself, a practical one,
and seemed rationally conceived.

We have used the word almanac, by which it was designated, but in
reality it very poorly conveys the subtle and singular combinations
which were here brought to bear upon a circular, rotary surface, the
aim of which was, to so far simplify the calculations of interest,
wages, discounts, and a hundred other tedious and difficult problems
occurring in complicated business affairs, that the merchant or banker
had only to glance his eye down a line of figures, to ascertain in
a moment results which would take him, by all the ordinary aids and
processes, a long calculation to arrive at.

It was a brilliant conception, which must prove ultimately a most
successful discovery of the young mathematician, and one which had
cost him many years of careful analysis and profound observation. But
as he handed over the perfected copyright to our astute Professor,
who had just enough of button-trading cunning to perceive the immense
practical results of the enterprise, without the slightest knowledge
of the processes by which it had been perfected, there might have been
noticed upon the face of his former victim, as he pocketed his paltry
bonus, a slight sneer, which would have alarmed any one less gifted
with occasional short-sightedness than our Professor has shown himself
to be.

He made off with the documents in an ecstacy of triumph, and forthwith
began making round purchases of paper, pasteboard, and other mechanical
appliances necessary to his success, to the amount of thousands of his
easily-got gains; and then as heavy sums were as rapidly expended upon
the costly and difficult copper-plate engraving, which was to set forth
in full the triumph, the undivided honors of which he now claimed, to
the world.

There are few of the main printing-offices in the country that had
not, or have not, that famous circular almanac hanging upon their
walls. Unfortunately the Professor had been too eager to promulgate
his triumph, and powerfully illustrated in this experiment the truth
of the old aphorism, “The greater haste the less speed;” for it turned
out, upon a close examination of the long and intricate series of
calculations, by scientific men, that the fatal error of a single
numeral ran throughout its complex demonstration, and rendered
its whole results utterly futile, without the enormous expense of
cancelling the costly copper-plate, and the tremendous edition which
had been already issued. The incorrigible ignorance of the Spiritual
Professor had rendered him incapable of detecting the error himself,
and he had thereby swamped effectually not only his magnanimous
speculation in this particular case, but thoroughly dissipated the
abundant proceeds of his more successful speculation in the spiritual
correspondences.

This little accident threw him upon his shifts, but we shall surely
find him upon his feet again hereafter.

Had not his starving victim subtly worked out a sublime revenge, in
spite of the fact that he had been over and over again so thoroughly
_saved_? So much for Boanerges and the young mathematician.