Another scene. About this time, Manton had effected the advantageous
sale of a new work, which placed him suddenly in the possession of a
larger sum of money than he had been able to command, at one time, for
a long period. His first thought was for his young _proteges_, and,
although his own wardrobe was sufficiently dilapidated, he expended
a portion of the sum for their comfort and gratification before he
thought at all of his own necessities. Unluckily for him, however, it
was evening when the money was received, and the purchases intended to
surprise them were the only ones made on the way to the house.

In almost boyish eagerness, and all breathless with the delight of
giving joy to these gentle ones he loved so much, he hastened home
and threw his presents down before them, to be greeted with rapturous
expressions and gleeful merriment, the silvery and most musical
clamoring of which, soon brought the woman, Marie, to the scene. Her
eyes danced and glistened as she saw them; her infallible instinct
scented the money in an instant.

“Beautiful! beautiful!” she exclaimed, clapping her hands with
childlike artlessness. “How lovely! How sweet! How noble! How generous
of you to think of these dear girls first, when you need so much
yourself!” and she looked up with bewitching candor into the face of
Manton, though it might have been noticed by more careful observers
that one eye turned obliquely towards his pockets. She sprang suddenly
to his side, and leant affectionately against his arm, which she
clasped with both her hands.

“Ah, my gentle Tiger! How shall I ever thank you for your unwearying
kindness to these my tender blossoms? My precious ‘Monies!’ You are too
good! We shall never know how to thank you enough!”

And leaning still closer and in a more confidential manner towards his
ear, while her forehead flushed and her voice sank,

“You sold the book, did you?”

“Yes.”

“For how much?”

“The receipts in my pocket will show!”

“Ah, let us see them then!” said she playfully, as she thrust her hand
into his pocket. “I want to see if those evil and stupid publishers
have understood the value of the precious genius they were purchasing!
Oh, dear, why what a treasure! Here are fifties, twenties, ever so
many!” while she, with eager and trembling hands, fumbled the notes
that she had snatched from the vest-pocket where he had, with his
characteristic carelessness of money, thrust them loosely. “Ah, I must
take time to count all this treasure for you, for I don’t believe you
know how much you’ve got, you careless boy!” And as she said this she
hastily deposited the money in the bottom of her pocket.

Manton looked at her a moment with a very hard, cold glance, while
a flush of indignation gleamed across his brow; for he had a sure
presentiment that he should never see this money again. The great
misfortune of his organisation was his recklessness in regard to money,
and the absolute inability of his nature to comprehend the sterile
meannesses of its abject worshippers. For the first time the impulse to
strike this woman to the earth came across him, but in an instant this
angry feeling was dissipated amidst the gay and laughing caresses of
his petted favorites.

When, on the next day, Manton demanded of the woman an account of
the money, she turned pale and red, looked upwards and downwards,
and finally askance, while she faintly told him that she had spent
the whole; but, for his good, as well as that of the dear girls and
herself, “for,” she said, “you know you are _so_ careless about money,
_so_ generous, _so_ liberal, that you would have thrown it all away
without accomplishing any of the good you so much desire. Pray, forgive
me, for my anxiety to do the best for us all!” and as she saw the
brow of Manton, who had not uttered a word, settling darker and darker
above his cold dilated eyes, she sank upon her knees at his feet, and
clasping his in her arms, she plaintively plead—

“Ah, forgive me! forgive me! I acted for the best! For God’s sake do
not look so, you will kill me!”

He spurned her contemptuously from him with his foot, and retreating,
as she crawled abjectly back again, he said in a measured, deliberate
tone—

“Keep away from me, woman! You may retain your ill-gotten plunder once
more, but, mark you, if ever you dare to put your hands into my pockets
again I will strike you to the earth, woman as you are, and trample
you beneath my feet, as I would another reptile! I have had enough of
this remorseless fleecing!” And spurning yet more contemptuously her
persistent attempts to clutch his knees again, he left her _swooning_
upon the floor. He went forth with the scales falling from his eyes
regarding this woman, in some particulars at least.