XVII.

                             “TO-MORROW.”


It would be well for sinners were there no to-morrow. At least it
would be well for them so far as impunity in the enjoyment of sin was
concerned. But it may not be; the inevitable time of reaction must
follow that of excess, the wages of which are remorse.

The effect of that to-morrow upon poor Manton was fearfully crushing.
At first he dared not think—the horrid realisation would have slain
him. He dared not look up, lest he should see the great height from
which he had fallen. He dared not hear the voices within him, or above
him, lest they should blast his sense. He shrank from the sunlight,
as though each ray were a fiery arrow, to cleave hissing through his
brain. He dared not look his fellow-man in the face, lest he should
see the mark upon his brow, call him accursed, and spit upon him. The
innocent eye of childhood was the most dreaded basilisk to him; and the
face of a pure woman made him shrink and shudder in affrighted awe. His
shadow seemed a spectral mockery to him, for it no longer glided with
him, straight and firm, but was bowed, and crept sneaking after.

The burden of a hundred years had fallen upon the young man’s shoulders
in one fatal night—a ghastly, loathsome burthen of self-contempt—his
face had grown old; his eyes lost their proud fire; his lips, their
firm expression; there was no longer any “aspiration in his heel.” The
haughty, bounding self-reliance, the unflinching, upward look, were
gone! gone! Manton had lost his self-respect.

Ah, fearful, fearful loss, that it is! There was a leaden desperation
in the man’s whole air that was shocking, even to those who had never
seen him before. There was no bravado in it—it was sultry, slow and
self-consuming—shrank from observation, and burned inward.

He neither sought nor found any palliation for himself. He blamed no
one else; his pride would not permit him to confess to himself that he
had been unduly influenced, or that any unfair advantage had or could
have been taken of him. No, it was his own fall. His own grossness had
profaned those associations which he had stupidly deluded himself, for
years, into supposing to be really sacred things in his life. He had
rendered himself, thereby, unfit for Heaven, unworthy Earth, too base
for even Hell.

His first sullen recourse was to the wine-cup, that he might numb the
unendurable agonies. He drank to monstrous excess; but, no, it would
not do; that cold burning, as of an ice-bolt through his heart and
brain, lay there still, in the two centres. He sought and found men
like himself, with great thoughts and stricken hearts; like himself,
brain-workers; and in the fiercest orgies of desperation, hours and
hours were spent without attaining to one moment of the coveted
oblivion.

The evening had long set in among such scenes, when a note was suddenly
thrust into his hand from behind, and as he turned his head, he saw a
boy hastily making his way through the thronged room. This movement had
not been observed by his noisy companions—he hastily concealed the note.

He had recognised the superscription with a feeling of deathly
sickness, for which he could not clearly account. It was as if the
fresh wounds were all to be torn open again.

He soon after found an opportunity to withdraw beyond observation, and
opened the note, which contained only these words:—

 MY FRIEND:—why have you left me all day? come to me—I am dying.
                                                           MARIE.

The sheet was bespattered with blood. Manton nearly fainted. Recovering
himself in a moment, he muttered, “Infernal brute that I am! to have
neglected the poor, frail creature thus—after last night, too! May God
forgive me, for I shall never forgive myself!” He hurried from the room.

The scene, on reaching her apartment, was, as may by this time be
expected, ghastly enough. But as we have seen a little more of these
horrid bleeding scenes than Manton has, we will refrain from another
description of one, since we have found that they only differed in the
intensity of effect and degree in the precise ratio of the results to
be attained. In this instance she had not reckoned without her host.

Manton, who never dreamed of suspecting her, and had been fully
impressed with the belief that these attacks were fearfully dangerous,
and that the magnetism of his touch, whether imaginary or otherwise,
could alone suffice to restore her to the calmness necessary for the
arrest of the hemorrhage, felt as if an awful responsibility had been
suddenly devolved upon him, as he thus apparently held the very life of
this singular woman in his own hands.

This impression had been consummately fixed upon the mind of Manton
by her obstinate refusal to permit the presence, at their interviews,
of any third person, not even that of her own child. She could thus,
through his generous humanity, most effectually draw him to her side;
and, when once in her reach, he was again in the power of those fearful
arts, of which we have seen something.