XIX.

                          SOME SELECT SCENES.


Some short glimpses of daily scenes may convey, perhaps, a clearer
idea of how life sped now with Manton, amidst the new charms which it
had gained. The whole man was rapidly changed; his habits of excess in
wine-drinking were, in a great measure, thrown aside, and the hours
he had thus wasted in stupifying madness, were given to the society
and development of these fair children, that had thus come to him in
blessing. He now knew no difference in his thought of them; they had
grown to be twin-flowers to him, transfused with a most tender light of
spring-dawn in his darkened heart. Yes, there it was—that little spot
of light—he felt it warm, and slowly spread and waken in soft beams,
tremulous and faint, along the ice-bound chaos where the life-floods
met within him.

His brow would grow serene and lose its painful tension, as, hour by
hour, he watched beside them, guiding their wayward pencils with his
sure eye, to teach their yet irresolute wills and unaccustomed fingers
to act together with that consciousness that always triumphs; and
then, with the long evenings, came lessons in botany, or the eloquent
discourse, half poetical, half rhapsodical, and all inspired, which
led their young spirits forth, amidst the mysteries and beauties of
the other kingdoms of the natural world. Or, when the stars came out,
and their calm inspiration slid into his soul, he communed with them
of higher themes—of aspirations holy, wise, and pure—of the heroic
souls of art—of their pale, unmoved dedication, through dark, saddened
years of neglect, obloquy, and want—of their glorious triumphs, their
immortal bays, that time can never wither—until, with trembling lips
and glistening eyes, they hung upon his words.

It was wonderful to see how quickly Elna wept, like an April shower, at
any tender word or thought; but the great eyes of Moione only trembled
like dark violets brimming with heavy dew. All the truth, the religion
of Manton’s soul, was poured out at such times.

The door would sharply open—“Elna! Moione! go to bed!” This would be
spoken in a low tone, evidently half-choked with rage, by the woman.
Her bent form looming within the shadow of the entry, looks ghastly
enough in her white gown, loose dark hair, and the greenish glitter
of her oblique eye. The poor children rise, with a deep sigh from
Moione over her broken dream, and a quick exclamation of petulant wrath
from Elna—while Manton mutters an involuntary curse on the unwelcome
intruder; and, as the light forms of the children recede before his
vision and disappear in the dark passage, he shudders, unconsciously,
as if a ghoul had disturbed him at a feast with angels.

Now, again, had he fallen back to hell. With a fierce outbreak of
jealous fury, she would spring into the room, as if literally to devour
him with talons and teeth; and, when but a few paces off, catching
his cold, concentrated eye, she would stagger backwards, as if shot
through the heart, toss her white arms wildly into the air, and, with
head thrown back, utter, in a strange, choking, guttural screech—

“Auh! auh! auh!—yaugh!—you kill!—you kill me!” and pitch forward
convulsively, with the blood bursting in torrents from her mouth. Then
came the long, harrowing, and oft-described scene of terror, remorse,
pity, on the part of Manton, and the plea for forgiveness, the slow
recovery, and—and so on.

Or else, with some modification of tactics, the lioness changed to the
lamb, the Gorgon-head to that of Circe, she would throw herself upon
him, with tender expostulations, call him “cherubim,” and stroke his
“hyacinthian curls;” and, when that failed, cling about his knees,
and weep and pray, and then, as the desperate resort, suddenly swoon,
with a tremendous crash, upon the floor, and lie there for an hour, if
need be, in a condition of syncope, so absolute, that Manton—who had
now witnessed this comparatively harmless phenomenon so many times, as
to be relieved from any apprehensions of immediate results—had lately
felt the curiosity of the philosopher irresistibly aroused in him, and
would frequently leave her for a considerable length of time, in order
to watch the symptoms, before he proceeded to apply the very simple
remedy for recalling her to consciousness, with which, by the way, she
had furnished him long ago, in advance, through certain adroit hints
and indirections. When he had satisfied his more analytical moods,
in this way, he would proceed with the restorative process, as _per
prescription_.

This mysterious operation consisted in placing the pillows of the sofa,
or the rounds of a chair, under her feet, so as to elevate them at a
slight angle higher than the head. As he was led to understand the
result, the blood, by the laws of capillary attraction, was instantly
carried up, from her head to her feet, thereby relieving the oppression
of the brain; when lo! to this new “open sesame,” the rigid lids flew
wide apart, disclosing eyes as vivid with life as ever.

The strangest part of this scene consisted in the fact, that while
the fit lasted, it was impossible to perceive the slightest symptoms
of breathing or pulsation, any more than in the most broadly-defined
case of catalepsy, or of absolute death itself. It was, therefore,
clear enough to his mind, that such conditions could not be entirely
counterfeit; though the suggestion had now become frequent, that they
might, after long training, become, in a great measure, voluntary.