The sequel to the last scene is too rich to be passed over. Since
that wholesale and impudent robbery, Manton had maintained his ground
firmly, in regard to money. All her arts were brought to bear, in vain;
he steadily and sternly refused to be plundered any farther; until
finally, his feminine “saviour” being driven to the extreme verge of
desperation, tried a new and dashing game.

She had just been reading Zschokke’s charming tale, “Illumination, or
the Sleep-Walker.” The reader will remember how the Sleep-Walker, the
heroine of the tale, instructs Emanuel, while in the clairvoyant state,
as to how he should proceed in her own case, which he had been elected
to restore to health again, through the nervous, or sympathetic medium,
by re-establishing the balance of the lost physical with the spiritual
life. That, in addition, the Sleep-Walker revealed to him the thoughts
of his own soul, and counselled him as an angel would have done,
against the evil she saw in him—tells him too, that he must not regard
her weakness, or the petulance of her words towards him in her waking
state.

Well, our clairvoyant, after reading this book herself, exhibited an
unusual degree of restlessness to have it read by Manton, too; nothing
would content her until he had fairly commenced it, when she knew there
was no probability of his pausing until he got through. She watched him
during the reading, with great curiosity, frequently interrupting him
to draw out his opinion as he progressed.

Everybody knows the fascination of the tale, and confesses the fine
skill with which its wonderful details are wrought up. Manton could do
no less; he was charmed, of course, as millions of other readers have
been. A few hours after finishing the book, while sitting at his table,
engaged in writing, the door, which was unbolted, flew open wide, and
there stood Madame, dressed in pure white—the eyes nearly closed,
and features pale and rigid, the outstretched hands reaching vaguely
forward, after the manner of the somnambulist.

She paused for a moment thus—while the whole meaning of the scene
flashed through the mind of Manton in an instant; and, although he
felt a very great inclination to laugh, he restrained himself, and
determined to encourage the thing, and see how far it would go. The new
Sleep-Walker now advanced slowly towards him; and as she crossed the
room, a slight movement of her fingers beat the air before her, as if
through the guidance of these magnetic poles her soul sought its centre
of attraction; with a slow, gliding movement she thus approached, until
within a few inches of him, when her hand leaped, as the magnet does
to the stone, to meet his, and then a certain painful rigidity that
had marked her brow at first, was displaced and gave way to a serene
expression of content, as if she had now found rest.

That peculiar action of the muscles of the throat, as if in the effort
to swallow, now followed immediately, and was sufficient intimation to
Manton that she desired to speak. He accordingly asked her, solemnly—

“Why are you here?”

But there was evidently something of mockery in the tone in which
this question was asked, for the Sleep-Walker only frowned and shook
her head impatiently. Manton now changed his voice, and with real
curiosity, proceeded.

“Speak: why have you come to me thus? What would you say to me?”

After some four or five efforts to produce sound, she articulated—

“For your good.”

“Tell me then, what is for my good?”

She again frowned and shook her head and muttered—

“You are naughty.”

“Why?”

“You have no faith.”

“Faith in what?”

“Faith in me—in my mission—in my truth.”

“I have faith in you—tell me what is for my good.”

“You must be more humble; your pride and your suspicion will never let
you be saved. You must have some hard lessons yet to bring you down—to
humiliate you—to purify.”

Here there was a long pause, when Manton, growing impatient, finally
asked—

“Is this all you have to say to me? Is this all you see now?”

“No.”

“Well, what is it?”

After considerable hesitation, she at length said—

“You do not treat me right!—you hold my life in your hands—yet you are
cold—you do not come near me—you are leaving me to die!”

Here then was another long pause.

“What more is there?” at length asked Manton; “this is not all.”

This time the choking and hesitation, before pronouncing the words,
seemed greater than ever. At length, however, out they came.

“They complain of you in Heaven, that you let me suffer—that you do not
care for my necessities—that—that you do not—not—give me money now.”

This was too much—Manton literally roared with scornful laughter, as he
spurned her from him—

“Ha! ha! ha! here is illumination for you with a vengeance! Alas! poor
Zschokke! ‘to what base uses do we come!’ The divine inspiration of
the Sleep-Walker raising the wind! Vive la bagatelle! Hurrah! hurrah!”
He fairly danced about the floor, in an ecstacy of enjoyment—the scene
seemed to him so irresistibly ludicrous.

During this time, the woman, who had staggered towards the bed, and
fallen across it, lay perfectly immovable and white, without the
change of a muscle, or the quiver of a nerve. Manton, however, paid no
attention to her, and half an hour afterwards, taking his hat, left
the room, without again approaching her. But what was his astonishment
on returning, two hours afterwards, to meet the sobbing Elna, and the
pale, troubled face of Moione, in the passage. Elna, at the sight of
him, seemed wild with grief, and sprang, with her arms about his neck,
screaming—

“Oh, mother is dead! mother is dead! My dear mother is dead!”

“Why, Moione,” said Manton quickly, taking her hand, as he shook Elna
off, “what is the matter? what is all this?”

“She seems to be in a fit of some sort. We missed her, and after
looking all over the house, found her lying on the bed in your room,
without motion or breath. We have not been able to wake her since, and
did not know what to do until you came.”

“Oh, come! do come!” screamed the horrified Elna. “Save my poor mother!
save her! save her! You must save her! I shall die!”

Manton, who immediately felt his conscience sting him, assured the
girls that it was merely a mesmeric sleep, from which he would relieve
her in a few minutes. He then rushed up-stairs, accompanied by them,
and found her, indeed, in precisely the same attitude and apparent
condition in which he had left her. After a few of the usual reverse
passes for removing the magnetic influence, she slowly opened her eyes,
while the blood returned to her face. Starting up and staring about
with a bewildered look, she uttered merely an exclamation of surprise,
and then, after rubbing her eyes, quickly asked the poor child, Elna,
who had thrown herself sobbing wildly on her breast—

“Why, you foolish girl, what’s the matter now?”

“Mother, dear mother, we thought you were dead!”

And now came an explanation, so far as the thoroughly repentant Manton
was disposed to make it, of the scene we have just described; the
amount of which was, that she had come into his room in a clairvoyant
state, and, being called out suddenly, he had left it for an hour or
two, forgetting to make any explanation to the family, and without
having relieved her, as he should have done, before going, by using the
necessary reverse passes.

The incredulity of Manton had never before received so severe a shock;
and it was a long time before his conscience would forgive him, for
what now seemed his brutal suspicion. Alas, poor Manton! had he only
possessed, for a little while after he left that room, the invisible
cap of the “Devil on two sticks,” he would have been most essentially
enlightened as to something of the art and mystery of Clairvoyance.

As soon as the front-door had slammed behind him, he would have
seen that woman spring to her feet, and, with lips and whole frame
quivering with rage, glide from the room, muttering to herself; and
when she entered her own room, which could be reached through an empty
bath-room, he would have heard several low, peculiar raps upon the
partition-wall which separated her own from the room of her daughter.
These raps were repeated, at intervals, until a single tap at her door
responded, and in another moment the girl Elna glided in on tiptoe. The
conference between them was carried on in a low, rapid, business-like
tone, while every half-minute the girl thrust her head from the window,
to watch as for some one coming.

After a few moments thus spent, the child left the room, with an
intelligent nod, in answer to the repeated injunction not to leave the
window of her own room until she saw him coming, far up the street—and
then—!

After this, he would have seen the woman quietly seat herself at the
table, after locking her door, and write a long letter; when, on
hearing three low taps in succession, she sprang to her feet, rushed
through the bath-room into the room of Manton, and threw herself across
the bed, in the precise position in which he left her, and, after
three or four violent retchings of the whole muscular system, her face
collapsed—grew ashen-white—her lids drooped—her muscles became rigid,
and she exhibited all the outward resemblances of suspended vitality.
Then the wild Elna rushed in, accompanied by the deluded Moione, and,
the moment she looked at the condition of the mother, burst into the
most extravagant demonstrations of helpless grief; while Moione, with
perfect presence of mind, sprinkled water upon the face and endeavored
to restore animation. Soon the street door-bell rings with a peculiar
energetic pull, and the frantic Elna at once exclaims, “Manton! dear
Manton! he can save my mother; let us run for him.” She seizes the hand
of Moione, and—we know the rest!

Shocking, ludicrous, and monstrous as all this may appear to the
reader, from his point of view, its only effect upon Manton was
necessarily to rebuke the feeling of harsh incredulity which was
beginning to become so strong in him, with regard to this inexplicable
woman. He was now more troubled and confounded than he had ever
been; for it was impossible that a nature like his could ever have
voluntarily suspected the unimaginable trickery and collusion which
we have traced in this scene; while his common sense was too strong
to be in any degree shaken by what was simply unexplained. His
magnanimity would not permit him to suspect the full degree of knavery,
or his conscientiousness to run such risks, again, of doing grievous
injustice, as it now seemed to him he had clearly done in this case.
He felt it utterly impossible to treat these phenomena with entire
disrespect hereafter, however little influence he might permit them to
exert upon his fixed purposes and will.