The results of the last scene may be rapidly traced. Very soon there
commenced a series of mysterious calls by a dark-veiled lady, whom
Manton was induced to suppose was a patient who was desirous to retain
her incognito. She came and went always at unusual hours, and though a
vague suspicion once or twice forced itself upon his mind that there
was something unusual going on, yet in his pre-occupation it created
but little attention. But we, who have undertaken from the first to be
somewhat closer and more widely-awakened observers than he, can see
something more significant than met his eye in all this.

An _accidental_ meeting in one of the rooms of the house soon occurred
between Edmond and Eugenie, upon the privacy of which we are not
disposed to intrude. Let the consequences suffice.

In a few weeks the imperious tone of Jeannette, who, too, had been
kept entirely ignorant of what was going on, was lowered, though the
covert and sardonic vindictiveness of her wit had clearly lost nothing
of its directness and ferocity even; because, as she daily became less
exultant, the moroseness of her temper increased.

It would be anything but a pleasant picture to unveil the harrowing
struggles of such a woman to regain an ascendency, which she felt was
daily driven by some malign and invisible power beyond the breath of
her heretofore ascendant will. She only felt its devastation amidst
her towering hopes, and the moon-stone battlements of regal schemes
that she had nourished in daring fancies. She only felt the shadow of
desolation on her soul, but her vision was not strong enough to see the
demon wing that threw it.

She was passing through the valley and the shadow, yet knew not where
to aim the lightning of her curse. She sank at last, bewildered,
stunned, and utterly humiliated; for she had crawled upon her very
knees to Edmond to plead for mercy, but he was inexorable. The old
passion had been restored to his life, and her proud, voluptuous rival
held the sensual philosopher a prisoner, “rescue or no rescue,” once
more.

For days and days after the tremendous realisation of her loss had been
forced upon her, she lay upon her bed, tossing in dumb and tearless
torture: then her concentrated madness took a new and sudden turn; she
shrieked and wailed, she cursed heaven, and earth, and men, and even
Edmond, with the lurid curses of madness, while she kissed the hand
and blessed the ministerings of the soft-gliding genius of her ruin,
who hung with a cunning science about her suffering bed.

But Jeannette was clearly not the stuff to die of any one passion less
intense than her love of self. She came through at last, haggard and
broken, and humble enough, but she received her pension nevertheless,
and soon after sailed for England, leaving the field to her stronger
rival, to whom Edmond was soon afterwards married.