The girl nodded. "Leave the knife here, then. Or would that change the
course of history?" She smiled. "Of course, what you ought to have done
was hand it right over. Then if it was such a great antique they'd not
only have the guy's fingerprints but they'd also find out who knew her
that worked in a museum or had a chance to steal it from one. That's
elementary homicide procedure."

"You see," said Mikel, "this also you won't believe. But our police are
not conditioned to take care of killings. This is the first time in
my whole life that I have ever even heard of one, except by accident.
The psychologists wouldn't allow anyone to grow up who had murderous
tendencies that couldn't be sublimated."

"They let that one slip by them, didn't they? And do you mean that in
the great scientific future they tell us about, the police won't know
as much about handling a homicide case as any hick constable knows
today? Who're you trying to kid?"

"We do not have crime. The police are to guard traffic and to take up
for reconditioning anybody who doesn't obey the civil rules. I don't
know much history, but I know there once were wars, and then there
were experts in war. Now--in my time--we have no wars, so there are no
experts. In the same way we have no experts in crime."

"Then what would they do to you, if they did convict you of this murder
you didn't commit?"

"I don't know. There is no penalty for murder because there have been
no murders for so long. This will be a world affair; the police will
refer it to the Supreme Council, and they will decide what to do. I
suppose they will have me euthanized as an atavistic deviant. That's
why I lost my head. It was a totally new experience and I haven't been
conditioned to new experiences. But even if they don't convict me,
they'll punish me for running away. They'll demote me, perhaps all the
way back to where I started twelve years ago."

"It doesn't sound like much of a brave new world to me," said the girl
in a disparaging tone. "What's your name--or do you just have numbers?"

"My name is Mikel Skot."

"Michael Scott--well, that sounds like a regular name, anyway. Mine's
Betty French, by the way."

"Many grats to you, Citizen French. You have given me good advice. I
know now it is my duty to take the knife back with me, and give it to
the police. I shall tell them also about looking for somebody in a
museum, as you suggested. But there will be no fingerprints--I washed
the knife in that fountain, when I hoped to sell it. I forgot it _must_
exist in my era, or the murder could not have occurred.

"But that is not my big problem now. I have no money of your time. How
shall I live until I can go home?"