His name was Mikel Skot. He was thirty-four, five-feet-ten and lean,
with decent features and all his hair and quite nice brown eyes.
But somehow he always seemed to give the impression of being of
indeterminate age, and slightly dusty. He lived alone, he gravitated
between his job and his lodgings, and since the age of fourteen he had
never known a girl well enough to call her by her first name.

For twelve years, ever since 2827, he had sold tickets at one of
the windows of Time Travel Tours, Unlimited. If raises hadn't been
automatic, he would never have had one, though he was punctual,
faithful, honest, quick and accurate. Even the other ticket-sellers
still called him Citizen Skot.

He had never budged from his cozy era--even though, as an employee, he
was entitled to take any tour he wished, on his semi-annual vacation,
at no cost to him beyond the planetary sales tax--nor had he ever left
his native city, let alone his native planet. He was too shy even to
realize he was lonely.

This morning there was the usual rush. Staggered vacations meant that
any time of the year was the busy season for TTT. Skillfully Mikel
Skot arranged tours and calculated rates.

"Two weeks in Rome, 45 B.C.? That will be creds 850, Citizen. You get
your costume and equipment in Room 104, right off the Teleport. Yes,
I'm sure they'll have a Latin language-transformer you can hire."
"England in 1600, one month, reservation in the name of Chas Rusl. Yes,
I have it right here. That will be creds 500, please." "You mean you
want a ticket for here in Los, for a week six years ago in February?
Why, yes, it's a little unusual, but--oh, certainly, I understand--a
second honeymoon. Congrats, Citizen--not many couples stay together
that long! Just a min, while I look up the rate for two."

The queue seemed endless, and crowds of travelers who already had
their tickets were pushing their way through the doors back of the
ticket-office to the Teleport itself, together with the friends who
were seeing them off. If Mikel had had a moment to spare, which he
hadn't, he might have wondered, as so often before, at the numbers of
people everybody except himself seemed to know.

The morning wore on, and he was beginning to think longingly of 13:30
o'clock, when his lunchtime relief would arrive and he could sit in a
quiet corner of an Autocaf and watch the tridimens screen for the day's
news while he ate his favorite vitatabs and smoked a healthcig.

Then everything happened all at once.

The girl standing at his ticket-window was a redhead. Her eyes were
green, with little dancing amber lights in them, and she smiled at him
as if he were the kind of man girls do smile at, and not ineffectual
Mikel Skot.

"Can you tell me," she began, in a warm, slightly husky voice.

Then she screamed loudly and collapsed.