Mikel reddened. Rule Five of the booklets he handed out with the
tickets to all travelers leaped into his mind: "Remember, you cannot
change the course of history. To avoid confusion and difficulty, avoid
revealing to any person you meet in other time-periods the true nature
of your presence there."

He broke the rule, and was sorry at once.

"It's a timeporter," he said, "set for my return home."

The girl laughed.

"That's a good one. I thought I'd heard everything since I came to this
crazy place. What are you, an Arab, dressed in that tablecloth?"

"I was born right here in Los," Mikel announced with dignity. "I've
always lived here."

"So they grow them crazy here right from the start! Then where's your
home you're 'set' to return to?"

"Here in Los."

The girl stood up hastily, a look of alarm on her face.

"Oh, please," Mikel cried, "don't go. I can explain. Perhaps you can
help me."

She sat down again dubiously.

"Well, I'm a sucker for a good story," she said. "Shoot."

"I--I wouldn't shoot. I have no weapon."

That wasn't true--he did have a weapon: the knife. But he could hardly
mention that. Anyway, the girl only laughed again.

"Wisecracks, yet," she said unintelligibly. "Well, what's the story?"

"I am from this place, but I am not from your time," Mikel began
laboriously; he was utterly unaccustomed to social conversation with a
woman. "I am from--with me it is 2839."

"What in the--look, what are you advertising? Some science fiction
magazine?"

"I don't understand that word--adver--what is it? Please believe me. I
shouldn't tell you, I'm breaking a rule. But it is true."

"Go on." She fixed him with a skeptical glance.

"I was--I am a ticket-seller for Time Travel Tours. This morning--I
mean what was to me this morning--a customer was killed at my window."

He plunged ahead. She listened in silence, a peculiar expression in her
eyes.

"So you see," he concluded, "I am here for a week. But then I go
back--the timeporter will see to that. I _want_ to go--I'm sorry I ran
away. But I'm sure the police will say I did it, because of the knife."

"Let's see it."

He brought it out.

"Why, that's just an ordinary kitchen carving knife," she said, just
as the man in the store had done. "I suppose you _would_ call it an
antique in--what was it?--2839. I still say you're haywire--or else
this is some new racket I don't get."

"I don't understand."

"Okay, I guess you wouldn't--in 2839. The language would change plenty
in 886 years." Once more her laugh rang out. "I'll say you keep it up
fine--that funny half-foreign way you pronounce your words. But I'll
play along, and pretend this is all on the up-and-up. Even so, it's
haywire--crazy. Because the dumbest cop in the world wouldn't suspect
you of the murder. Anybody'd know the murderer just got rid of the
knife the quickest way he could. Gosh, you were behind your window,
weren't you, and she was in front of it? Where was her stab wound?"

"Wait--it's hard for me to understand. 'Cop'--is that slang for police?
And the blood"--he shuddered--"came from her side. Either someone in
front or someone behind her could have done it."

"But they'll find out right away, won't they, that you didn't know the
girl? They'll find out who she was, and they'll grill everybody she
knew, to see who had a reason for wanting her out of the way.... Listen
to me! I'm as big a nut as you are. I'm talking just as if the whole
thing really happened."

"It did happen," Mikel assured her earnestly. "No, I didn't know her.
I don't know any girls at all. I'm--I'm not attractive to women."

"Why, you're not so bad," said the girl kindly. "I think you're kind
of cute--or would be, if you weren't rigged up in those outlandish
clothes," she paused, then continued, "Well, if you can prove you
didn't know her, what have you got to worry about?"

"The knife. And that I lost my head and ran."