When he could see her no longer, Mikel stood up and began hesitantly to
walk toward the restaurant she had pointed out. Fortunately, it was on
the same side of the street, not far past the shop where he tried to
sell the knife.

This was not going to be plez, not at all plez. Despite what this Beti
French had told him, he was nervous about putting himself in the hands
of either the police or psychologist of this barbarous era. But there
didn't seem to be anything else he could do. His conversation with the
redheaded girl had shown him clearly what kind of reception he would
meet from anyone else he ventured to approach.

First he must eat--he was ravenous. He dared not ask for any food
except the two things the girl had mentioned, whatever they were like.
Presumably the money she had given him would be enough.

The restaurant had a long counter of some white substance, with stools
fixed before it. Only one man sat there eating, but behind it stood
another man dressed in white, with a white cap on his head. Mikel
perched himself on the nearest stool.

"Hamburger, coffee, please," he said, and laid Beti's money beside him
on the counter.

The other customer looked up and eyed him sharply, but the man behind
the counter merely yelled "One on a bun!" through a hole in the wall.
"Mustard?" he asked, "Onions? Cream?"

"No, Citizen. Hamburger, coffee," Mikel repeated, flustered.

"A joker!" the man grunted. "This town! You in the movies, bud?"

Mikel stared.

"He wants a burger without and coffee with," the other customer put in
suddenly. He picked up his dishes and slid down to the next stool. He
was a heavy-set, middle-aged man, dressed as the man in the store had
been--in dark cloth bifurcated leg-coverings and a dark, long-sleeved
upper garment over a light-colored under-garment, with a gaudy ribbon
around his neck.

"Okay, okay," said the man in white placatingly, and set down before
Mikel something on a plate and something else in a cup, both hot. Mikel
began sampling them gingerly with the unaccustomed implements. The
restaurant man took the money, put it in a box that rang a bell, and
laid down some small metal objects in its place. Then he disappeared
through a door behind the counter.

Mikel's neighbor waited until he had gone. Then in a low voice he said:

"Finish the food, Citizen Skot. Then we'll talk."

Mikel looked up, frozen. The stranger shot his left wrist out from the
sleeve. Sealed to it was a timeporter.

"From TTT executive, Citizen," he said briskly. "I didn't think I'd
find you quite so soon, but I knew it wouldn't be long, since you
didn't wait to get proper equipment for your journey. It is fort for
you that this is perhaps the only place in this era where you would not
have been taken up at sight for wandering around in unusual clothing."

"How--how did you know what period--"

"We only had to check the tickets, to see which was missing. Have you
the knife?"