It was self-evident that he was in some year of the remote past, though
just which, he had no idea. He wished he had taken time to glance at
the ticket before he handed it in. He wished he had studied history
komikbooks, or given more than a cursory glance at the telescreen
propinforms of TTT. There was something to be said, after all, for the
General Educationalists, cranks as they were.

Certainly this was not his Los--his giant city stretching from Mex
to Sanfran without a break. This was a little place of probably not
much more than two million inhabitants. Well, here he was for a week,
and he'd better find out how he was going to eat and sleep. Properly
equipped time travelers had money of the right period, but the cred
checks in his pouch would do him no good now. What did he have on him
that could be exchanged for board and lodging?

Only one object of undoubted value. The knife.

Surreptitiously and with distaste he took it out and looked at it. The
blood had dried on it and doubtless left traces on the lining of his
pouch. It was probably covered with the fingerprints of the murderer as
well as with his own. But it was all he had.

In the middle of the park there was a fountain, with a pool around it.
Casually Mikel Skot strolled over to it and sat down on the ledge.
When he was sure nobody was looking he dipped the knife in the water
and scrubbed it dry on the inner hem of his tunic. There would still
be traces of blood which any chemist could find, of course; but nobody
here would be examining it for that. Since anyone could see that it was
of immense value, he would have to account for possession of it. He
could say it was an heirloom.

Putting it back in his pouch he approached a fat man on a bench nearby.

"Where is the nearest history museum, please, Citizen?" he asked
politely.

The man looked up. He had been scanning a large piece of paper which
Mikel, with a thrill, recognized from one of his few visits to the
Museum of Antiquities. It was a thing called a newspaper, which had
antedated the tridimens telescreen. He remembered that the specimens he
had seen had borne dates at the top, and if he could read the archaic
printing he could find out what year it was. But the man folded it up
and thrust it under his arms as he answered.

"History museum?" he echoed. "Gosh, bud, I don't know. I'm a stranger
here myself--just got in from Kansas yesterday. You a foreigner?" he
asked with frank curiosity. "You got a funny accent. And you sure look
funny."

A foreigner--that was a good one! But Mikel had no time to waste.
He murmured "Excuse," and left. The man stared after him and made a
gesture which Mikel did not understand--describing a circle in the air
near his forehead.

Mikel walked to the edge of the little park and looked about him.
Across the street was a store with newspapers in racks in front of
it. He could go over there and see the dates. But what did it really
matter? With his ignorance of all but the haziest generalities of
history--he thought that once, thousands of years ago, Los had belonged
to the Spaniards, and after that there was some kind of war that was
maybe called the American Revolution or the Civil War or the World War,
he was not sure which--it wouldn't do him much good to know whether he
was in, say, 1820 or 1960 or 2080. Besides, he was afraid to cross that
street full of clumsy vehicles, and with neither an overpass nor an
underpass. Nowhere could he see anything that resembled a museum.