Betty French seemed to stiffen. She looked at him disgustedly. "I get
it now," she said. "I might have known. This is just a new way of
panhandling. I certainly admire it--it's a work of art. Well, I got my
money's worth. I'll pay for it."

She opened her handbag, drew out a dollar bill, and laid it on Mikel's
knee. He gazed at it curiously, but made no attempt to pick it up.

"Is that your kind of money?" he asked. "What do I do in exchange for
it?"

"Oh, let's drop it," she sighed wearily. "My lunch-hour's up, anyway.
Take it--it'll buy you a hamburger and coffee, and then you can tell
your tale to the next comer and maybe get enough for a bed in a
flophouse. Brother, you must have told it plenty, to get it all down so
pat. It's a wonder I've missed you before--or are you just starting to
work this neighborhood?"

She snapped her bag shut and stood up.

"Please--I don't understand--why are you so angry?"

At the desperation in his voice she turned and stopped.

"Look--I really have to get back to the office. This _is_ an act, isn't
it? Come clean--aren't you panhandling?"

"What does 'panhandling' mean?"

"Oh, I give up! I guess you're just looney, after all. All right, Mike,
let's call it a day. You keep that buck, and now you just go to the
nearest police station and tell them your story. They'll take you over
to the psychiatric ward of the county hospital and you can get free
board and lodging there."

Mikel turned pale and shivered.

"Oh, no," he breathed. "I'm not insane. If you don't believe me, no one
else will. And the hospital will euthanize me."

"Is that what they do to crazy people in--in your time?"

"Of course. And they punish the psychologist who didn't detect the
tendency and have the person euthanized in childhood."

"Suppose I give you my word they won't do that to you here and now?
They'll just observe you for a few days and then they'll have you
committed to a state hospital."

"You are quite positive? If I can be sure of being alive a week from
now, no matter where I am, when the timeporter checks I'll go back
home."

"Even if you're in a padded cell?"

"It won't matter where."

"Well, then, your problem's solved, isn't it? I'll show you how to get
to the station."

"I must eat first. I'm very hungry. And what were those things you said
if I should get--hamburger and coffee? They are--original foods? Our
food is all synthetic."

"You don't have to keep this up with me any more. There's a quick lunch
place." She pointed.

"And they won't mind in this Autocaf that I'm not dressed like the
others?"

"In this burg? They wouldn't notice if you wandered around in a
loincloth. Now I've _got_ to go. This is the wackiest thing that ever
happened to me, whatever it really means. Well, good luck, Mike!"

"Grats to you, Citizen French, from deep in my pineal. Oh, wait just
one min more please!"

"What is it now?"

"You have given me so much to tell our police. But won't they wonder
_why_ this man killed the girl?"

"They can ask him when they catch them, can't they? But it's perfectly
obvious. She was buying a ticket, wasn't she?"

"Yes, certainly."

"Well, that meant she was going away--leaving him, doesn't it? So he
was in love with her--maybe she was his wife--and he couldn't take it.
Maybe she was going to some other guy--how do I know? He found out she
was deserting him, so he got hold of the knife, and followed her."

"But I don't see why." Mikel was utterly bewildered. "She was a free
agent, like anybody else. He couldn't object to her leaving if she no
longer loved him--he didn't _own_ her. That doesn't make sense. If I
tell one of our police _that_ theory, she will surely think I'm insane."

"She?"

"All our police are women, of course. Women are naturally gifted at
keeping order."

"You tell that to our cops, and they'll surely get you tucked away in a
nice hospital, but fast. Well, why else _would_ he kill her?"

"I don't know. That's why I asked you--you know so much more about such
things, in your barb--in your time."

"Your policewoman will have to figure it out for herself. So long,
Mike." She shook her head, smiling. "Will I have a tale to tell the
crowd--if they don't decide I've gone nuts myself! Good-by!"

"Goobie, Citizen, and grats again."

Still smiling, she hurried down the path out of the park.