There were shouts and jostling and milling around, and somebody leaned
over the counter and abruptly thrust something into his hand. He stood
there dazed, grabbing the object, whatever it was. Then he leaned over
the counter. The girl was lying there, very still. On one side of her a
pool of blood was slowly forming on the floor.

The guards were coming from all directions, trying to get some kind of
quiet and order into the excited throng. Mikel looked down at the thing
in his hand.

It was a knife, a steel knife with a wooden handle. It was obviously an
antique, and of great value. And it was smeared with fresh blood.

Mikel Skot lost his head entirely. Never before had he, or anyone he
had ever heard of, been involved even remotely in any kind of violence.
He never even took in historical crime plays. The redheaded girl was
dead, and he held in his hand the knife that had killed her. And she
had been the first girl who had smiled at him for years.

He wanted out--now!

He reached behind him and grabbed a ticket at random, not even looking
to see what date it was. He punched it hastily for a week. Nobody was
looking at him; everybody was still yelling at everybody else, and the
sweating guards were trying to line people up and blocking the doors
so that they could not get away. Mikel ran to the corridor back of the
counters, which the ticket-sellers used, and saw that the company door
to the Teleport was open. Out there, what with parties singing "Happy
Timetrav to You," or noisily greeting homecomers, and the loudspeaker
directing passengers to their proper stations, and the roar of the
take-offs and returnjets, nobody seemed to have noticed that anything
was wrong in the ticket-office.

Mikel glanced around once to be sure that nobody was watching him, and
slipped through the door. He was still holding the knife. Automatically
he thrust it into his belt-pouch.

It was typical of him that after twelve years not one of the Teleport
attendants knew him by sight. He thrust his ticket at the nearest one.
The man glanced at it (three other travelers were trying to get his
attention at the same time) and said "Platform Eight." Mikel hurried
there.

Before he reached it he remembered something. He had punched the ticket
for duration, but not for place. Well, that was all right. If it had
no place-punch, it would mean Los itself. He was escaping into his own
city.

The attendant at Eight took his ticket, then peered at him dubiously.

"You haven't clothes for the period, Citizen. Go to Room 104 and--"

"It doesn't matter," Mikel interrupted him. He was in a fever to be
gone. "I'm--it's a research project," he added in a sudden inspiration
which didn't make sense even to himself, but which the attendant, used
to strange statements from travelers, accepted without comment. He
sealed the timeporter on to Mikel's wrist, set it for return in a week,
and helped him into the telechamber.

There was a swift moment when his head felt empty and his stomach
heaved: and Mikel Skot found himself sitting on an iron bench in a park.

He had a week now to think things over. He was in Los--he had to be,
his ticket said so.

But when?

He looked about him. It must be the middle of the day, the same time it
had been before, and the park was full of people on their lunch-hour.
They were dressed weirdly--the men and half the women wore tight
cylindrical garments, one on each leg. The upper part of their bodies
were covered with various kinds of brightly-colored cloth, though
occasionally he saw a woman who wore only a breast-holder above her
bare midriff! Mikel, in his belted tunic, huddled in a corner of his
bench, fearful of notice. But nobody paid any attention to him, and
once a man passed who had on a tunic too--a long white one, over bare
feet and under long hair and a flowing beard. Apparently in this period
people dressed as they pleased--at least in Los.

The city itself, what part of it he could see from his vantage-point,
was stranger than the people. There were no moving sidewalks, and
no weather-canopies over the streets--though perhaps these had only
been removed for the dry season. The buildings looked shrunken and
tiny--hardly one seemed to be more than thirty or forty stories high.
Archaic buses and motor-cars, apparently powered by some non-atomic
fuel, plied the actual streets, instead of being confined to subways.
The skies were almost empty of planes, and those he saw were incredibly
clumsy and slow. There was obviously no freeway for helicopters.