The vast circular runway lowered all around the hall and the
galaxy-model rose, giving the appearance of turning upward past them.
"We are coming down toward and below the plane of our galaxy at the
scalar rate of about a hundred thousand light-years per minute," said
Gant. Then a segment of the catwalk detached from the wall and went
forward on a long girder.

The bright pinpoints leaped out at them, giving Dusty the same feeling
as he had had in the space flight, except that the model lacked the
waves of heat as the little pinpoints passed. He looked at Barbara
and watched the tiny points plunge into her skin to disappear, then
reappear behind her, as if they passed through her body harmlessly.
He looked at his hand as the points streamed through, and he waggled
his fingers around a cluster and watched them twinkle. They penetrated
clusters and dark-cloud areas, placed where fifty stars occupied a
volume of less than a couple of cubic inches, spots where dusky,
shapeless masses represented globs of fifty light-years in diameter.
Rusty caught on. Thoughtfully he looked at Barbara and made a rough
computation that he and she were a couple of hundred light-years apart.
His eyes, he thought, must be about thirty light-years apart, and the
diameter of his head, at eight-and-a-third light-years per inch--

Dusty began to feel light-headed.

Through and through the model ran the colored lines, tangled and
skeined and then they were facing the point where the greenish-yellow
course-line ended.

Above the control panel was a faintly glowing sphere about two inches
in diameter.

"Sol?" asked Gant.

Dusty shrugged. "Sol? How can we--"

He leaned forward and set his right eye close to the pinpoint of light
and looked outward. Was it--could it be--familiar. He changed his
angle of sight. Was Galactic North aligned with Terrestrial North?
Dusty could not remember. The center of the Galaxy? Somewhere in or
near Sagittarius, he believed, but Dusty was not familiar with the
constellation. There! Was that the Belt of Orion? It looked strange,
distorted. The constellation as he remembered it of old, was not like
that. Pinpoints, of course, could not begin to look like these tiny
discs, or vice versa. Was it this that made them seem unfamiliar or
was it that he was displaced in scalar space by enough light-years to
distort the constellation? Was that--there--Polaris and the Dippers,
large and small and Andromeda? Or, thought Dusty with wry self-disgust
creeping into his mind, was that _W_-shaped thing Cassiopeia? He wished
that he had paid more attention to astronomy.

Pleiades? He shook his head. That was a cluster and unless one
remembered very carefully the configuration as it looked from Sol, the
conglomeration of stars would probably look about the same from the
same number of light-years from the opposite side.

Sol--if that sprinkle of glow were Sol--must be near bright Sirius.
An inch away and a double star. And Alpha Centauri should lie about a
half inch from Sol and it should be a fine trinary; two bright ones in
a binary and a less bright one making the triple. And Procyon--or was
that only a single like Sol? He ran through his sorry list of stars
remembered as being within fifteen or sixteen light-years of Sol, and
was appalled to see the number of pinpoints that were surrounded by
that tiny sphere that represented the sixteen light-year diameter. His
mental catalogue had holes in the listings--more hole than listing, he
considered truthfully.