Another star passed him in its characteristic wave of light and heat,
and Dusty realized that what looked dangerously close on the viewpanel
was in reality quite distant. It meant that so long as his ship was
pointed into a clear space, there would be no danger of running into a
star no matter how precarious it looked.

But the cold sweat came because the beacon star lay winking at him dead
in the intersection of the crosshairs that marked the drive.

Disc? Did it show a disc? Does Sirius show more of a disc than Polaris?

Dusty's hands pulled the 'Tee' bar slightly to move the winking eye
ever so subtly upward. That way he would not be aiming his spacecraft
dead into the searing hot maw of a variable star. He took a shaky
breath and relaxed.

Gant Nerley shook his head. "I see what you are doing, Dusty, and you
must not. You'll make a wide curve and get off the beam. Or worse,
you'll hit a star lying close to the course. You have no idea of how
wide you'll run. Center it up, Dusty, and keep a close watch, for it
will become a disc. You'll have time. Relax."

Reluctantly Dusty returned the 'Tee' bar to the central position, and
the star winked through the crosshairs at him, itself no larger in
diameter than the width of one line. It was not obscured by the lines
because of the construction of the panel, a design that Dusty could not
quite understand. Dark lines should have hidden the stars behind them,
but on this gadget they did not. He looked closer and found that the
stars themselves lay on top of the lines rather than under them, and
he wondered how they managed that stunt. It was, of course, a matter
of design. Dusty's experience had been with small telescopes, but this
device was not an optical device, so the simple laws of optics did
not obtain. As he watched, the winking star became a winking disc and
Dusty's nerves twitched.

When had the change started? Dusty realized that he had been
half-hypnotized by the wink ... wink ... wink that meant both safety
and ultimate danger. The disc was expanding rapidly, and as Dusty
tried to move the disc to Line H-001, the edge of the winking beacon
expanded faster than the point of aim moved. He wrenched the 'Tee' bar
hard and saw the crosshairs move sluggishly below the exploding circle.
Then the beacon flashed past in a wave of heat far greater than any of
the other stars, and he was blinded by the light for a second or more.
But as the blindness died, there on Line F-312 there was a distant
wink ... wink ... wink.