Gant smiled serenely at his objection. "Well, doubt it as you will, but
we would. Of course, we know that no such case would ever come up. But
if it did--"

"Y'know what you remind me of," snapped Dusty. "You remind me of a
parent explaining to his kid that this castor oil is good for the
kid, and that if the parent needed it he would take it with a happy
smile--excepting of course that the parent does not need anything of
that nature. We have an old adage: he dies well who never faced a
sword! I think it applies here. Well, go on, Gant. Tell me where Terra
lies in your scale of values."

"That's what we are trying to determine. You are obviously not of the
pre-aware stage. You have your limited space travel and your historical
records which will preclude any attempt at forcing the affair upon you
and causing you to put the change as superstition that would be wiped
out."

"Thanks."

"On the other hand you are not of the advanced stage which could accept
a change in your night sky without trouble, nor will you accept it
willingly."

"How true. Now this brings us to the impasse, doesn't it?"

"Yes."

From across the table a man waved for attention. "It's more than that.
The moment Dusty Britton opened the distress phanoband, the secret of
the galactic rift was let out. Like everybody else, we put direction
finding equipment on the signal and have it located rather well. Then
we went back through our files and found that as far as we can tell,
Sol was mentioned as a possible beacon by one of our early exploratory
parties. One that disappeared. One that--"

"So what?" barked a man down the table from Dusty. "Seems to me that
Intercluster sits on its duff and waits for us to find rifts for them."

"Transgalactic isn't the only outfit with a spacecraft," snarled the
man from Intercluster angrily. "We've done our share."

"Not on my books," said the Transgalactic representative.

Intercluster eyed Transgalactic sourly. "What's the matter?" asked
Intercluster softly, "Are you mad because Intercluster happens to have
records on the rift you re-discovered?"

"Re-discovered my--"

Intercluster turned to Gant. "I leave it up to you," he said. "Our
records show that we, too, have rights to this rift."

Transgalactic hammered on the table. "Like hell!" he roared. "If you
have rights, why aren't you using them?"

"Because you and your gang concealed them from us until Scyth Radnor
got into trouble. A fine bunch of incompetents you are! A fine group to
be representatives of our culture. You can't even keep your hands off
native females--"

Barbara rose with a single lithe motion and hurled the contents of her
glass in the Intercluster man's face. He staggered back, floundered
back into his chair, landed hard and tilted it back on hind legs to go
over backward in a crash.

"Native female?" spat Barbara.

The room went breathlessly silent; the music stopped on a flubbed note;
the scent soured in a brief wave as though the man at the valves had
miscued. The lights flickered awkwardly.

Barbara stood there tense and ready. Her breasts were pushed against
the nylosheer of her dress; her stomach was flat and hard. She was
poised like a healthy wild animal daring any onlooker to try to tame
her.

Dusty rose lazily and pushed her back into her chair with a hand on her
shoulder. No other man in the room would have dared to lay a hand on
her except Dusty. This he somehow realized, and it gave him personal
gratification to know that he had once more done that which the
Marandanians would not have dared.

Then he went over and picked up the Intercluster man with one hand,
standing the man on his feet like a puppet.

"We apologize for reacting to your unfortunate choice of words," he
said smoothly. "We admit to being a bit primitive and impulsive. I came
unarmed," and he pointed to the band across his hips where the Dusty
Britton Blaster belt had protected the whipcord from the sun, "because
we are advanced enough to realize that we are impulsive and perhaps a
trifle inclined to act before considering the matter fully."