But Dusty was not a pilot, and certainly not a pilot of a Marandanian
Spacecraft. So the pre-flight checkoff took almost an hour. Nearly
ninety-nine percent of the time Dusty was following Gant Nerley's
instructions blindly: Is the pilot lamp registering power source
showing red or green? Is the spacelock indicator showing closed? Turn
the atmosphere control to Internal. Set the autogravity corrector to
Controlled. Co-stator circuits to Regulated; antimagnetic response dial
to zero; space-coordinate servo control to Stellar Display. Planetary
Drive to Automatic Threshold; match the Gravitic Constant to the Power
Delivery. Set the Master Control to Pre-flight Warm-up.

"Now," said Gant Nerley, "take it slow and easy. Take the 'Tee' bar
gently. Find the thumb-buttons and press them both evenly; spread
your knees against the paddles under the control panel slowly and
press the Force pedal with your right foot. Tell me, what is your
trans-atmospheric velocity?"

"It says 416."

"Too high. Press the Compensator pedal with your left foot until the
TAV meter reads 312."

"Now."

"Hold it that way until the Matter Per Cubic Meter indicator drops
below the red line."

"The TAV meter is dropping below 312."

"Good. Let up on the Compensator pedal and depress the Force pedal
more. Keep the TAV meter at 312."

"The Matter Per Cubic Meter indicator is below the red line, Gant."

"Free the Compensator pedal. Push the Force pedal all the way home and
kick it to the right. Now read the Trans-atmospheric velocity meter."

"Dropping rapidly."

"Good. And the MCPM?"

"Dropping rapidly."

"Excellent. Spread the knee-paddles wide and lock them. Have you a
reading yet on the Space Velocity Meter?"

"Just getting off the peg."

"Um--it is a little early. But that's all right. It will arrive in due
time. Keep an eye on the Foreign Body Indicator, Dusty. Any reading?"

"No."

"Good. Don't touch the 'Tee' bar, Dusty. That's the steering mechanism
and it is in neutral. Is there any indication on the viewpanel yet?"

"Not yet."

"Haven't enough velocity yet," said Gant. "But when it appears, it
will look like a star map. Now, the central cross-hair is the point of
aim of your spacecraft. If the star you want lies, say, to the upper
left, move the 'Tee' bar forward and to your left. That will swing the
ship in that direction and you can line up the drive with the target.
Also, since angular position is important when moving in three free
dimensions, twisting the crossbar of the 'Tee' will cause the ship to
rotate on its axis. The map will turn in the direction, apparently, but
it is really the ship turning. That is--"

"I'm beginning to get a presentation now," said Dusty.

"Good. Dim and reddish, isn't it?"

"Yes."

"Fine. Now get this straight and clear: The phanobeacon is the control
beacon for direction of angular curve. In other words, it takes three
points to define the orientation of a plane in space. These three
points are you, the star-beacon or course-marker which you will find
directly, and the main terminal-beacon which is the phanobeacon. You
must drive your ship in the proper plane when making a curve or making
any turn. Follow?"

"Yes," replied Dusty, trying to think it out. He was far from certain
about all this, wondering why it was all necessary. He went over the
instructions in his mind, made no more sense out of it than the first
time, and then decided to accept it without trying to figure out the
reasons. After all, Gant Nerley and his folks ought to know what they
were doing.

"Now," said Gant, after a moment, "In order to orient yourself, you
must line up the Phanobeacon on the point of aim. Take the 'Tee' bar
firmly, one hand on either side of the axle. Find the thumb-buttons on
the handle. Press them all the way in and lock them home with a slight
sidewise pressure towards the center. Got that? Now, lift the 'Tee'
bar straight up until it is high enough to manipulate with ease. Be
careful, don't move it sidewise!"