From the teletypes of Worldwide Press Service:

    UNITED STATES COAST GUARD RADIO TODAY REPORTED A DISTRESS SIGNAL
    FROM SCHOONER BUCCANEER OFF COAST OF BAJA CALIFORNIA STOP BUCCANEER
    ATTACKED BY QUOTE ALIEN SPACECRAFT ENDQUOTE STOP USE WITH DISCRETION
    COMMA BUCCANEER OWNED BY DUSTY BRITTON OF MARTIN GRAMER STUDIOS STOP

An excerpt from the daily column of Garry Granger:

    "There is something in the wind that smells like a publicity stunt.
    Dusty Britton, our Space Patrol type Sir Galahad supposedly took
    off for the Venus jaunt some three weeks ago, but has succeeded in
    sending a distress signal from somewhere off the coast of Southern
    California. Apparently The Space Patrol is about to meet up with
    Moby Dick, or possibly it will be "Ten Thousand Leagues Under The
    Sea" starring Dusty Britton. We would like to know two things: one
    is whether our intrepid hero actually risked his million dollar
    neck in a rocket or not, and the second thing is how much
    hanky-panky the Coast Guard is going to stand for. Some things
    should be kept sacred. We are not very religious here at the
    office; but we do believe in the Brotherhood of Man, and somehow
    we resent bitterly the use of distress signals as a means of
    getting publicity."

Excerpt from a press release from Martin Gramer Productions, Inc.:

    "Now it can be admitted! Dusty Britton has combined fact with
    fantasy! No longer a mere actor, Dusty Britton was called from the
    space rocket just a few minutes before take-off time to investigate
    a secret report of space operations off the coast of Baja
    California. If Dusty Britton reported an attack, it stands to
    reason that the secrecy that surrounded the original report is no
    longer necessary and Dusty Britton's presence on earth instead of
    in the space rocket can be disclosed. We await more detailed
    information as to the real nature of--"

From a press-conference held at Arlington, Virginia:

                      SIGNAL FALSE! SAYS F.C.C.!

    "Radar Stations report that no sign of space operations by any
    agency other than the Venus Rocket have been observed. Even the
    early warning screen operating along the coast of California and
    Lower California has nothing to report. The signal of distress is
    obviously false, and Dusty Britton will be asked to show just
    cause for emitting such a report."

A statement from the United States Coast Guard:

    "Search and rescue squadrons of the Coast Guard were in flight
    above the schooner Buccaneer within an hour after the interrupted
    distress signal from Dusty Britton. The schooner appeared to be in
    excellent condition and was making its way back towards land when
    sighted. Radio challenges were ignored but upon flying low, Dusty
    Britton and an unknown woman were seen waving from the deck. There
    seemed to be no signs of distress, but a Coast Guard cutter is
    speeding to the ship and is expected to make contact in the next
    few hours."

Excerpt from the column of Garry Granger:

    "What actor, long noted for his derring-do and his exemplary
    behaviour has been in unchaperoned company with a nubile young
    female in romantic surroundings? In our youth, heroes were only
    permitted to kiss their horses. We applaud the approach to reality,
    but then we are no longer a youth."

From the teletypes of _The Worldwide Press_:

    "Dusty Britton today arrived in port, bearing a tale of a Galactic
    Civilization called Marandis. This Galactic Government it seems,
    intends to move the Earth to another sun because our position
    interferes with their program of running Galactic Highways back and
    forth across the trackless wastes of space. Moving Earth is a simple
    process, according to Dusty Britton. A mere matter of barytrine
    fields, machinus forces, phanoband carriers, and a general
    abandonment of the theory of general relativity.

    "From the viewpoint of the scientists interviewed following this
    claim, Dusty Britton may or may not have been reading one of his
    own scripts. Knowing Dusty Britton of old, we are inclined to call
    this one: _Manuscript Found In A Bottle_ with a deep nod at Edgar
    Allen Poe for the use of his title.

    "Dr. Foster of the Wellmann Observatory suggested that enough of
    Dusty Britton's story was logical to make it sound good. A race
    traversing the galaxy at hundreds of light-years per hour would
    find variable stars helpful if used as beacons. But Dr. Foster
    said that Britton's story was illogically incomplete. If this
    outfit has the machinery necessary to move a planet, why not move
    the stars themselves and create a straightaway passage from one
    end to the other without curves in the course?"

From The Wall Street Journal:

    D' B' ttn Ent' pses-Open 68 Close 43 off 25

Editorial From _The Journal of Temperance_:

    "Elsewhere on these pages is an apology for not printing the
    interview between our science reporter, Miss Agatha Westlake, and
    Mr. Dusty Britton. The interview was not concluded because Miss
    Westlake believed that she could detect the fumes of alcohol on Mr.
    Britton. It is deplorable that the youth of this fair land have put
    their faith and their future ideals into the character of a man of
    such despicable hidden leanings. A package of cigarettes was visible
    on the deck of Mr. Britton's boat and nearby was a small glass of
    the kind only found in those dens of iniquity, the formal name of
    which is forbidden to these pages.

    "Let us therefore seek a new champion, who will eschew these vices;
    who will find it more godlike to extend his gracious invitation of
    vacation time to his youthful admirers instead of a woman of low
    moral fiber. We feel--"

TIME _Magazine_, Science Section:

    "Dr. Willy Ley, in an interview today in his retirement home in
    Jackson Heights pointed out that he had always been convinced that
    the limiting value of the speed of light was a false theory.
    Therefore Dr. Ley concluded that it was entirely possible that an
    extra-solar race could have developed interstellar travel.

    "My grandson, Gregory, is aboard the Venus Rocket," said Dr. Ley in
    the rich German accent that seventy five years in New York have not
    diluted. "I hope to see the day he takes off for Alpha Centauri.

    "But I do feel that there is reason to doubt the story offered by
    Mr. Dusty Britton. Certainly the more intelligent persons of any
    galactic civilization would be less likely to contact an actor than
    scientists or government officials? This story of phanobands,
    barytrine fields and menslators sounds too much like the fancies of
    science fiction to me."

Article in _The American Weekly_:

    "With heat rays and weapons of unimaginable power the enemies of
    the Earth will swoop down to--"

From _The Chicago Tribune_:

    "Not since the days of King George III has the threat of foreign
    entanglements been so great--"

From _The Daily Worker_:

    "Without a doubt this advanced culture has developed a perfect
    galactic State, capable of serving all men according to their
    needs. We feel that a pardonable mistake has been made by their
    representatives in contacting a man of Dusty Britton's character,
    and we will wait with open arms the return of the galactic
    emissaries, who will bring with them the glories of--"

From Mount Palomar:

    "Variable stars are of natural origin and can neither be started
    nor stopped. The theory that such stars are used by a galactic
    civilization as beacons and celestial stop-lights is utterly
    fantastic."

From the teletypes of _Worldwide Press_:

    "Dusty Britton was arraigned today in Federal Court for having
    violated the rulings of the Federal Communications Commission and
    the international rulings of the Havana Conference of 1972. An
    indictment is expected from the grand jury, still in conference.

    "Dusty Britton is charged with having caused the transmission of a
    false distress signal. He pleaded not guilty at his arraignment and
    will probably plead not guilty if his case comes to trial. A fine
    of ten thousand dollars or three years in jail (or both) is the
    maximum penalty for a conviction. Public sentiment will probably
    make the maximum sentence mandatory; this is an election year and
    the Administration is interested in demonstrating that its foremost
    desire is to serve the public interest."

Press Release from Cosmic Studios:

    "The filming of first run of the new series, _Jack Vandal, Space
    Rover_ was completed here after an extensive eighteen day program.
    Jack Vandal is patterned after the characters of The Saint and The
    Lone Ranger. Unrestricted by the laws that prevent a policeman from
    performing his moral duty, hated by the underworld, Jack Vandal is
    to become a Robin Hood of Space. The world premiere will take place
    at The Palace Theatre, in Greater New York."

Statement from The Office of Scientific Research & Development:

    "No evidence has ever been found to corroborate Dusty Britton's
    statements that radiation phenomena exist which cannot be explained
    by the application of Maxwell's Equations, and which are not
    subject to the limitations imposed by the theory of general
    relativity."

Ruling by the Bureau of Navigation, Marandanian Sector:

    "It is hereby granted that a barytrine field be established about
    the Planet Three of Sol, and that Planet Three shall then be
    transported and placed in situ near a star of appropriate
    dimensions. This enactment is to take place at the convenience
    of the Transgalactic Company with the proviso that no inconvenience
    take place to the culture of Planet Three. It is ruled herewith
    that the change in stellar hemispheres and the revision in
    planetary pattern is of no prime importance to a primitive culture.

    "It is further ruled that the loss of approximately one thousand
    years of direct time in the inhabitant's life is of no importance
    since contact with the external culture has not taken place, and
    therefore this loss has no bearing on the primitive culture. At the
    end of this period of transmittal, investigatory contact will be
    made to formulate a program of enlightenment which will result in
    the eventual assimilation of Sol Three into the Grand Galactic
    Government.


                                          Signed, Sealed, and Delivered
                                                  BuNav, by Direction."