Dusty did not hear the Marandanian. He was thinking of Los Angeles
suffering under the effects of a variable star. Or, rather, he was
trying to visualize such a condition. His imagination provided
alternating scenes of icy blast and deadly heat, but Dusty's overall
technical knowledge was far too meager to offer him even a slight
glimpse of the real truth. To merely consider Sol varying about one
hundred to one in brightness and warmth every three days was as far as
Dusty could go. What would happen to the weather, the general climate,
agriculture, and all of the rest were far beyond Dusty.

Even so, the sketchy picture provided Dusty with enough data to say,
"Why, we couldn't go on living on Earth at all!"

"Right. Which is why I'm here."

"But you said--"

Scyth smiled confidently. "I'm not here to preside over the death of
your part of our human race," he said. "I--"

"Our part of your human race--?" exploded Dusty.

"Of course," said Scyth in a matter-of-fact tone. "So far as we know,
human life was first spawned on Marandis. About thirty thousand years
ago we became galactic in scope, spreading out, colonizing, expanding,
exploring. Many expeditions left home and were lost. But I'll not
belabor this any more, just accept my word for the following: nowhere
in this galaxy have we found intelligent life that did not spring as an
offshoot of misplaced Marandanian culture."

"How can you be so damned certain?"

"The easiest way is to check the cross fertility. It has always worked,
to date at least," said Scyth, inadvertently letting his eyes slide up
and down the very pleasant sight of Barbara Crandall's body. Barbara
knew Scyth's contemplative look and she reacted as any uninhibited
woman does when some man is measuring her. The deep high breath raised
her breasts and flattened her stomach even though she had no great yen
toward wanton promiscuity.

"I gather, then, that you and your gang are going to do something about
us?" she asked.

"Of course. We have a program for cases like this. Since you cannot
live on a planet rotating about a variable star, we'll move Earth to
another star of the same classification."

"But--" objected Dusty.

Scyth went on as though he had not been interrupted. "We'll set up a
barytrine field around Earth which serves to do two things. A barytrine
field cuts the force of gravity that holds Earth to Sol. It also
produces a complete stoppage of objective and subjective time within
the field. Then with machinus force-fields we'll put Earth in motion
towards another star of Sol's general size. In a thousand years you'll
come out of the barytrine field and resume your daily lives under the
light of a brand-new sun. It's as simple as that."

Dusty eyed Scyth sourly. "Maybe I've got this wrong," he said. "Maybe
you think we live a hell of a lot longer than we do. Maybe you live a
thousand years and more but we--"

Scyth held up a hand. It was the hand that held the glass, which was
empty. Dusty, reacting as he always did to the sight of an empty glass,
filled it despite the fact that he felt that Scyth Radnor was a long
way from being a friend.