On this Third Planet of Sol there were still captains and kings and
presidents and commissars and a couple of dictators and a new invention
or two, all of which professed to be gentle guardians of the public
rights. Only the names had changed, some in violence and some in peace.
The names of places were about the same; a few had disappeared in the
heat of ideology, but by and large things and people persisted despite
atoms, politics and the cussedness of human nature. Youth was still
going to hell--and old age was still fuddy-duddy.

One apparent change might have been noticed by a man of the middle of
the century, and even he would have expected it.

The history of this change reads like this:

A few years after Global War I, the manufacturer of a breakfast food
product known as "Oatflakes" realized a rather monumental increase in
the sale of his product. Conscientious investigation showed that this
increase was not due to the public becoming addicted to oatmeal as a
morning, noon and night diet (with a midnight snack tossed in) but
entirely due to a new plaything called the "Wireless." Wireless, it was
found, required as a major component about a quarter of a mile of wire
wound around the cylindrical box in which the oatflakes were packed.

Some years later, when the first home-manufacture of radio sets slowed
because of professional manufacture of commercial radio, the sale of
Oatflakes dropped to normal. At this point the manufacturer of the
food product realized that the pathway to high sales was not along the
contents, but along the package. Let the public buy the stuff for the
box, or the box-top. If he wants to eat the stuff on the inside, that's
his business!

So in the early-middle years of the century there arose a character
called Hopalong Cassidy, who portrayed an Old West chivalry and heroic
strength great enough to sell boxtops by the gross ton. He tied-in
sales with toy and clothing makers until business reached the Law of
Diminishing Returns. After selling spurs for roller skates the brains
ran out of ideas and turned to new fields.

Space travel was the coming thing, so the youth of the land turned to
Tom Corbett, Space Cadet.

Tom Corbett's only trouble was the same as the difficulty encountered
by one Frank Merriwell fifty years earlier. After twenty years, Tom
Corbett became the oldest undergraduate in Space Academy, just as
Merriwell became the oldest undergraduate at Yale. The youth of the
race wanted a real spaceman, full fledged and heroic, and so they got
it.

Meet Dusty Britton of The Space Patrol....

The sleek spacecraft landed and the clouds of hot dust rose almost to
the spacelock, driven up by the fierce reaction blast. A hundred yards
from the Patrol cruiser lay the broken spacecraft of Roger Fulton,
arch-fiend, cornered at last.

The spacelock opened and Dusty Britton looked out through a wisp of
the deadly radioactive dust. He was clad in the uniform of The Space
Patrol: black breeches and dark blue whipcord shirt piped in gold.
Calf-length black polished boots. His head was bare, and the collar
of his dress shirt was open wide enough to show the fine muscles of
his upper chest and shoulders. He was blondish with a wide open face
of the type that is associated with laughing-at-danger. His physique
was almost marvelous, slender-waisted, broad-shouldered, long-legged,
and agile-armed. His arms and hands and face were tanned from the
radiations of Outer Space and there were the million little wrinkles
about his eyes that were natural, not because of age, but because of
the price one pays for being a Spaceman. At his hip swung the secret
sidearm of The Space Patrol, a raygun far more deadly than the Colt .45
in the hands of him who knew its use.

Dusty Britton took a step forward to the edge of the spacelock,
took a deep breath, and then jumped down into the floating cloud of
radioactive dust kicked up by the landing blast. Within seconds he was
out of the cloud again and racing across the ground to the ship of
Roger Fulton which had landed askew.

His crew appeared in the spacelock and looked down, not daring to drop
into that horror, knowing that they were not as fast as Dusty Britton
and could not make it through in time to be safe.