VIII


                              A COLD TRAIL

THE white-rimmed eyes of the porter rolled admiringly toward McCoy as
the cattleman disappeared into the sleeper. “Some kick, b’lieve me!” he
murmured to the world at large.

Rowan stopped at the section where Norma Tait sat. “I’m going forward to
the day coach,” he explained. “If there’s anything I can do for you,
Norma, now or at any time, I want you to call on me.”

The woman looked at him, a man from his soles up, coffee-brown, lean,
steady as a ground-sunk rock. She knew his standing in the countryside.
His fellows liked him, trusted him, followed him, for by the grace of
Heaven he had been born a leader of men. McCoy was no plaster saint. The
wild and sometimes lawless way of his kind he had trodden, but always
there burned in him the dynamic spark of self-respect that lifted him
above meanness, held him to loyalty and decency. It came to her with a
surge of emotion that here a woman’s love could find safe anchorage.
What a fool she had been to throw him aside in the pride of her youth!

“Why should I ask favours of you? What have I ever done but bring
trouble and unhappiness to you?” she cried in a low voice.

“Never mind that. If there’s anything I can do for you I’m here to do
it.”

She gulped down a sob. “No, you’ve done enough for me—too much. Joe
will hear that you drove me to town. He’ll make trouble for you. I know
him.” A faint flush of anger dyed her thin cheeks. “No, I’ll go my road
and you’ll go yours. I’m an old woman already in my feelings. I’m burned
out, seems like. But you’re young. Forget there was ever such a girl as
Norma Davis.”

He hesitated, uncertain what to say, and while he groped she spoke
again:

“There’s a girl waiting for you somewhere, Rowan. Go and find her—and
marry her.”

Beneath the tan he flushed, but his eyes did not waver. “I’m going to
her now, Norma.”

“Now?” Her surprised glance swept the dark, new suit and the modish
straw hat.

“She’s waiting for me at Cheyenne. We’re to be married to-morrow.”

After just an instant came the woman’s little, whispered cry: “Be good
to her, Rowan.”

He nodded, then shook hands with her.

“And you be good to yourself, Norma. Better luck ahead.”

She gave a little wry smile. “Good-bye!”

McCoy passed forward to the day coach. From the train butcher he bought
a magazine and settled himself for a long ride. He intended to spend the
night where he was, even if a vacant berth should develop later in the
sleeper. Tait would mole out quite enough evidence against him without
any additional data supplied by indiscretion.

At Red Gulch a big, tanned Westerner entered the car and stopped beside
the cattleman.

“’Lo, Mac,” he nodded genially.

“’Lo, Sheriff! Ain’t you off your range?”

The big man was booted and spurred. As he sat down something metallic on
his hip struck the woodwork of the seat arm.

“Been looking for a horse thief I heard was at Red Gulch. False alarm,”
he explained.

“We can’t any of us strike a warm trail every time.”

“That’s right.” The cool, hard eyes of Sheriff Matson rested quietly in
those of the cattleman. “Wonder if I’m on one now. I’ve been asked to
arrest a man eloping with another man’s wife, Mac.”

“I reckon Tait phoned you from Wagon Wheel.”

“You done guessed it.”

“He’s gone crazy with the heat. False alarm, sure.”

“Says his wife is aboard this train. Is she?”

“Yes.”

“Says you took him by surprise and knocked him cold on the depot as the
train was leaving.”

“He’s made a record and told the truth twice running.”

“Where’s she going? Mrs. Tait, I mean.”

“To Laramie. Her sister lives there.”

“Running away from Tait?”

“Looks like it.”

Again the sheriff’s hard gaze searched McCoy. “Came down from Bovier’s
camp with you in your car, I understand.”

“Yes. I gave her a lift down.” Rowan’s voice was as even as that of the
officer.

“Suppose you give me a bill of particulars, Mac.”

The cattleman told a carefully edited story. When he had finished,
Matson made one comment: “Tait says she hadn’t a dollar. Wonder where
she got the money for a ticket.”

“I wonder.”

The eyes of the two men met in the direct, level fashion of the country.

“Going anywhere in particular in those glad rags, Mac?”

The sheriff’s question was dropped lightly, but McCoy did not miss its
significance. He knew that for the sake of Norma’s reputation he must
remove all doubt from the mind of the officer.

“Why, yes, Aleck. I’m going to Cheyenne,” he assented.

“A cattle deal?”

“Not exactly—object-matrimony, Sheriff.”

Matson shot a direct, stabbing look at him. “You’ve told me too much or
too little.”

“The young lady is named Trovillion. She spent two months at the Dude
Ranch this summer.”

The sheriff rose. “Nuff said, Mac. I wasn’t elected to do Tait’s dirty
work for him. I get off at this crossing. So long, old scout—and good
luck to you on that object-matrimony game.”

Left to himself, Rowan did not at once return to his magazine. His mind
drifted to the girl he was on his way to marry. It was likely these
days, whenever he was not busy, to go back to her, magnetized by the
lure of her dark-eyed beauty. The softness and fragility of his
sweetheart moved him to awe. That her fancy had selected him out of so
many admirers was to him still an amazing miracle. He did not know that
the mystery back of his silence had captured her imagination just as the
poignancy of her piquant charm had laid a spell on his.