It lay there on the center of his panel like a winking flashlight. Lost
in the star-field, which showed a myriad of points, some dim cloudy
stuff, and a band of milky white, the beacon would have been nothing
without that steady wink ... wink ... wink. He, himself, was lost. He
had not the foggiest notion of where he was, excepting that Mother
Terra must be far behind. Sol, a smallish, yellowish, completely average
dwarf would show nothing to call attention to itself from the distance
of a few light-years. Yes, somewhere back behind him lay Sol and his
planets. But the winking beacon on Dusty's viewpanel was like a banner
waved from a distant shore.

No man is alone so long as a lighthouse flashes its message of safety,
or warns against danger.

Dusty took a deep breath. "Barb!" he called.

She came up the ladder. "Call me?"

"How's Scyth?" he asked.

"He's doing all right. How're you doing?"

Dusty nodded boyishly. "Look, Maw I'm flyin'," he told her with a
chuckle. "Martin Gramer should see me now. This is simple like a duck's
ear, and I--"

Barbara screamed and Dusty whipped his head back to look along the
direction of her horrified eyes. To the viewpanel.

One of the stars, lost in the glitter of the distant background had
detached itself from the immobile sky. It was moving, forward, and its
glow was brightening. It came hurtling towards them like a white hot
cannonball. One second it was no more than any other star, distant,
aloof, and cold. Then it had exploded into a disc that expanded like a
released puff of gas. It came toward them like a ball of fire hurled
into their faces.

Dusty yelped and twisted on the 'Tee' bar and the stars rolled dizzily
across the plate--but not until the white hot monster had flipped past
in a quick wave of heat and a final flare of light which made a small
section in the back of Dusty's mind recall the effect of having a
foil-filled flashbulb fired during a still photography session.

Shaking, Dusty's grip on the 'Tee' bar tightened and he moved the lever
in tight little jerks until the stars returned to the proper positions
and the Phanobeacon was properly centered.

Gant's face showed concern. "What happened, Dusty?"

Dusty told the Marandanian, and Gant smiled knowingly. "Don't worry
about it. It will happen again and again, and maybe worse. But so long
as you keep the course beacon centered properly, you will pass by--and
not through--those interfering stars. Now, as soon as your beacon star
shows a disc, steer up to keep the beacon centered on Line H-001. Once
you pass the beacon, look for another beacon on Line F-312 and bring
the point-of-drive to center on the new one. Follow?"

Dusty nodded at Gant's image on the screen along the bottom of the
viewpanel. Another star detached itself from the backdrop of stars
and hurled itself into Dusty's teeth. The actor flinched but held his
drive. The star passed in a bright flash and a quick wave of heat and
was gone. Dusty licked dry lips and forced the grip of his hands to
relax. Far to one side another star passed in a majestic sweep, too
distant to bring them either heat or more light than the ones called
'fixed' on the viewpanel.

Dusty eyed the star-beacon suspiciously. Was it showing a disc yet?
And how much time did he have to shift the drive once the disc became
certain? Dusty felt a cold wave wriggle down his spine and he knew that
cold beads of sweat were beginning to ooze out of his face; he was
remembering the staggering speed with which the first star had come
leaping at him.