Dusty's voice grew hard. "I wish you birds would stop tossing off a
thousand years of our life with the flick of a finger," he said.

"What difference does it make? You'd not notice it, and--"

"Who says so?" snapped Dusty, his irritation mounting.

"Time is of importance only when its passage can be measured in
reference to outside events. You have no contact with outside events.
Therefore it makes no difference whether you come in contact with us
now or a thousand years from now, so long as the same people of your
culture are involved."

"Now see here--"

"Permit me to present an example. If the barytrine field went on at
this instant, one thousand years from now my successor would pick up
the thread of the conversation from the recording we are making, and
take on from here. As far as you are concerned the only difference
would be a sudden flick of the viewscreen and a rather abrupt change
in the facial characteristics of your conferee." Gant Nerley waited
a moment to let the point sink in. "Now, since you and I have very
little in common, it should make little difference to you whether you
spoke to me or to someone else. And as far as I am concerned, I feel
the same. I have long since ceased feeling regretful that I cannot
retain friendship with the hundreds of thousands of people with whom I
must converse. I have almost stopped being regretful of the fact that
there are so many worlds that no single lifetime would permit a visit
to more than a fraction. I suggest that you try to take a more lasting
attitude. You sound as though the troubles of a world you never saw
were of prime importance to you."

"Look," said Dusty testily, "A lot of what you claim may be true. But
we have a couple of thousand years of observational data on the planets
and the nearby stars. You may take a thousand years out of our lives in
the twinkle of a second, but then we spend another five hundred on top
of that finding out where we are."

"You have time."

"We have not!" roared Dusty. "Move us to a new system and I'll tell you
what'll happen. Before we can make a move into space we have to chart
the new system completely, because we admit that our reaction motors
are not efficient enough to take off without a well precharted course.
We must know the orbits of the planets to a fine degree before we dare.
Then, before we can make a try for the stars, we've got to spend years
and years in observation before we can chart the nearest stars and
observe whether or not they might have planets, our astronomy will be
put back. Now--"

"Pardon me, but the information I have regarding your system is before
me. Your space travel is primitive and any form of real commerce is as
yet impossible. This I get from the license application for barytrine
operations. Now, how can you justify your statements about interstellar
travel?"

Dusty Britton, no matter what else, was a good actor any time he
could sit in with a large Virginia Ham to carve. Dusty would never
play Hamlet or Julius Caesar; a custard pie in the face was closer to
Dusty's art than John Barrymore. This fact provided for Dusty a rather
interesting background for the present argument. A student of science
could not have faced Gant Nerley without paying deference to the
Marandanian's obviously superior knowledge, position and experience.
The learned man makes no flat-footed statements; this leads to the odd
belief that most learned men are not entirely sure of themselves. It is
the bird who is ignorant of all the myriad things that he does not know
that can afford to stand up on his hind feet and reel off chapter and
verse as though there could be no rebuttal.