For an answer, Barbara pointed to the wall. "Scyth, on that wall is a
painting given to me by a character who calls himself an artist. Take a
gander."

Scyth looked. The painting was a mess of squiggles and blots of color.
It was iridescent here and drab there, soft lines elsewhere and sharp
contrasts somewhere else.

"Interesting," said Scyth. "What is it?"

"I'm not sure. I think that this is the painting; but all it needs is
a hole in one corner and it could be the palette that the guy used to
make the painting."

"This is apropos of what?"

"Frankly, I think it is a mess. It is something that could be
accomplished by a monkey turned loose in a paint store. But the artist
calls it 'modern' and defends his stand by stating that anybody who
criticises it is wayward, ignorant and unappreciative of the finer
moods and things of life. So put me in your culture and turn me loose.
If I criticise it will be because I am too primitive to understand
these higher bits of culture. If I enjoy something, I am looked down
upon because I can't really feel the true depth of the thing. It--"

Scyth held up a hand and his empty glass at the same time. Barbara
laughed and went to give him a refill. It also gave him time to think,
and when she came back with his highball he had the answer.

"Barbara," he said sincerely, "a lot of what you say is true. But look
at it this way. You will be a celebrity. You will, to all intents and
purposes, be among your own kind. That helps. So you can't follow the
deeper arguments nor appreciate the complexities of society as we know
them. But think of what you can see and enjoy which will be forever
denied you if you refuse my offer."

"For instance?"

"Imagine the beauty of a planet under a double sun. Imagine if you can
the beauty of a night sky with a ringed moon glowing soft over the
landscape. Coalestis is a planet where most of the minerals and rocks
combine into black stuff. Imagine the beauty of a city of polished
ebony. There are the twinworlds we call Venago One and Two. The Venagos
are separated only by about a hundred thousand miles and in the night
sky you can look up and see the other world glowing over a quarter
of the heaven, and on the dark side are the winking beauties of the
cities glowing like jewels. You will see worlds where the vegetation
grows lush; riotous colors to hundreds of feet tall and there are cold
planets where the ice and snow are always dazzling white. You will wear
sheer shimmering cloth so soft that you have no word to describe it.
You will wear jewels that glow with their own internal light. Money and
luxury will be yours, to travel as you see fit; to spend the rest of
your life flitting from star to star, seeing the varied wonders of the
universe. That is the fate of an actress in our culture, Barbara, for
Lord knows we have few enough of them."

Barbara looked at Scyth seriously. A number of things occurred to her,
and one of them was simple. If Scyth had returned to earth to see her,
it was obvious that she measured up well against the women of Marandis.
Another factor was the yearning to travel. Barbara would not have
recognized the train of thought if it had been labelled and explained,
but it was there none the less. This was her one chance to see the
greener grass on the other side of the galaxy, the chance to realize a
human dream of countless centuries.

She smiled wanly.

"You see what I mean?" asked Scyth.

"I think I do."

"Doubts?"

"Yes. I feel as though I'll be abandoning my own kind."

Scyth had been leaning forward on the loveseat. Now he came forward to
cross the room. He leaned down, took her hands, and lifted her out of
her chair.

"You'll come?"

"You make it very attractive."

"You can do nothing by staying, Barbara."

"But--"

Scyth freed one hand and fished in his jacket pocket. He came up with a
small box, deftly flipping the cover up with his thumbnail.