The man from Transgalactic paused a moment to let this point sink
in. Then he said, "Gant Nerley, I object to your proposal. We need
no more investigation. We know what these Terrans are and how they
react. They offer little to Marandis at present. They are no more than
a responsibility to us and as such they owe us our superior rights.
Therefore, unless I am ordered at this moment to cease and desist, I am
going to proceed. Do I hear such an order?"

A babble of voices rose.

"Gentlemen," said Transgalactic, suavely, "I offer you a short and
quick route to the Spiral Cluster."

He stood there for fully a minute listening to the clamor of individual
discussions going on in the smaller groups around the table. Then he
hit the table with his fist, bowed sardonically to Dusty and Barbara,
and strode out.

Dusty looked at Gant. "Can't we do something about this? Can that guy
go do as he pleases?"

Gant shrugged. "We are a government that guides but does not rule,
suggests but does not demand, recommends but goes not force. I can and
will put a stop to his activity providing that you show direct evidence
that Terra and Sol are of importance in their present location, that
Terra has something to offer Marandis, that you are not what he claims.
However, if what he said is true, then what he is about to do is
acceptable."

"But we--" and Dusty stopped short. He had no argument strong enough to
convince this Marandanian that Terra would lose anything but its own
jealous prestige.

Dusty stood up slowly. "Come on, Barbara, let's go home. At least we
can be among friends. I'd hate to be marooned here while Terra was
smothered in the barytrine field."

Barbara stood up and leaned against his side. "Yes, Dusty," she said in
a throaty contralto.

Gant smiled wanly. "I'll see that you get home," he said. "Forgive us,
Dusty. You'll really lose little and gain much. I--"

Dusty looked at Gant. Then he looked down at Barbara. Then up at Gant
again.

"So I've failed," he said in a low voice. "I've tried and failed. And
I am aware of the fact that Terra will not lose much. That isn't the
point. It's just that I, Dusty Britton, am a personal failure. I should
like to be able to say that I don't give a damn what other people
think, but I can't. I care a lot what other people think, because for
the next forty or fifty years or more I've got a living to make, and
making a living is a lot easier if the entire world is not convinced
that I am a no-goodnik. But then, who am I to stand in the way of
galactic progress."

"Dusty, I regret that the rest of your people will not be able to see
the thing I am going to show you. Maybe you can describe it when you
return. Come with me."

Gant led them from the hall, then to a moving walk that hurled them out
and across one of the flamboyant arches between buildings. Here Gant
stopped to display his credentials to a man in uniform, and to sign a
register that also listed Dusty and Barbara and their home planet Terra.

They went along a corridor that curved gently; through a heavy metal
door that opened on response to a signal sequence delivered against a
button.

The room inside was vast, truly vast. It was a vertical cylinder and
it must have been more than a thousand feet in diameter and three or
four hundred feet tall. They stood inside of the door on a narrow metal
catwalk that ran completely around the circle, its far side lost in the
distance and the dimness, for the room was not lighted from above, but
from below.

It was a pleasant glow, a flat, hazy, wispy glow from a gas-like cloud
that floated in the room a hundred feet below the catwalk ... a scale
model of the galaxy.