The visitor from space smiled indulgently. "You miss the point,
Dusty," said Scyth, nodding his thanks for the drink. "I said that
the barytrine field produces a complete stasis in time. It will snap
on ... a thousand years will pass ... it will snap off. To us, we will
live and die and never see you again. But for you and yours, if you
drop a marble before the field goes on, time will cease for you until
the field goes off, and your marble will hit the floor a thousand years
from now. You will feel nothing. There will be a tiny flick of light.
If you are watching the sun it will probably blink and return slightly
off-center because we never can be that precise. If you are watching
the stars at night, they will wink out and wink on, and be in a new
pattern. You will feel nothing."

"Yes, but, look here, we--"

Scyth smiled again. "Oh, you'll be repaid. We'll raise you from your
present primitive level--"

"Primitive?"

Scyth nodded. "Primitive," he said. "You're as primitive to us as your
savages are to you."

"But--"

"Look, Dusty, thirty thousand years ago, Marandis was still ahead of
your present state of development. I can say this because your people
at the present time still have no inkling as to the inconsistencies
in the theory of general relativity. Someday soon you will discover
that general relativity does not fit all the cases. Then you will
propose the machinus theory of space-time. The machinus theory works
where relativity does not. Then," glowed Scyth, "you will discover
the phanoband carriers which operate in a way as to completely deny
relativity in every concept. From there you find the barytrine field
forces. But you're still primitive, Dusty."

Dusty eyed the Marandanian sourly.

Scyth continued, "You'd find little in common with us," he said. "You'd
find that you would have to re-educate yourself before you could even
understand us. Why, there are people in our culture who would take
advantage of your ignorance."

Dusty nodded. His hazy knowledge of history presented him with a
costume drama of Sir Walter Raleigh handing over a ten, two fives, and
four ones to Chief Sitting Bull and receiving in return an engraved
bill of sale for the Island of Manhattan. This negotiation was sealed
with a slug of liquor out of a bottle labeled 'Bourbon, Bottled in
Kentucky.' (Pocahontas, standing to one side, received a string of
beads.)

Scyth went on:

"The big problem, Dusty, so far as you are concerned is the preparation
of your people. We cannot be precise about the position of the new
sun. We could not possibly hope to keep any semblance of your stellar
geography. When the barytrine field goes on, it will produce an effect
similar to reaching the splice in a reel of film. With no warning,
no pain, strain, nor furor the sun will snap slightly aside to its
new position. On the night-side the stars will flick instantly to a
new pattern. This sort of change would cause great hysteria and fear.
Unless the people are prepared for the sudden change. So, Dusty, you
as a high official in your Space Patrol must carry our message to your
people."

Dusty said, "But--"

"You've mentioned the possibility of payment," said Scyth smoothly.
"We expect and intend to pay. But not in money, Dusty. In service
and commerce and in many other ways. For instance, we know that your
group--I cannot call it your 'race' because your race is ours--must
stem from an early expedition and so you are a lost offshoot. As soon
as we can, we will come to you with teachers and learned men to help
you regain your rightful place as a part of our Galactic Culture."

Dusty looked at Scyth. In his mind churned a hundred objections to the
whole thing. He did not like it at all, but he was logical enough to
realize that his objections would be waved aside and the Marandanians
would go on and do as they planned anyway. On the other hand, maybe if
Dusty Britton were to take a large hand in this affair and carry it off
successfully, Dusty Britton could become a large figure indeed.

"It will be a bit difficult," he said slowly. "People are not going to
take to the idea of losing their sky and sun and a thousand years out
of the middle of their lives."

"The thousand years are peanuts. Nobody will notice it. The swap in
suns is only a sentimental objection. One sun is like the next and
we'll see to it that they are as close as can be had. The change in
stellar appearance is deplorable, I admit. But it will give you one
advantage, Dusty. Like most skies, they are divided off into primitive
legendary shapes with neither rhyme nor reason. A cluttered mess. With
a fresh start you can make some reason to the constellations. These
are the sort of arguments you must use, Dusty. As a final reminder,
you must remember that this is what is going to be done. Period. It
is necessary and it cannot be stopped. Therefore you and your people
should accept it and make the best of it. Therefore, in what will seem
like three weeks, you will be by another star, under a strange sky, a
thousand years from this moment. And my people will be there waiting to
help you on your climb to the pinnacle of culture.

"But now I must go. Take my words back to your leaders, Dusty. You will
go down in history; make the best of it!"

As abruptly as that--Scyth Radnor arose from the deck of the Buccaneer,
climbed onto his runway, and was drawn back into the big spacecraft.
The spacelock closed smoothly and the huge ship rose silently out of
the sea and arrowed towards the high blue sky. The only noise was the
whistle of its passage through the air above.