Beyond a doubt, the report of any such committee would recommend that
Terra be bundled into its barytrine field with no delay, and that Sol
be nudged into the three-day variable needed for the beacon on this
particular dogleg of the journey across the galaxy.

Dusty had succeeded in his own way, but now he knew that it was not
enough. He, himself, had convinced them that Terra was worthy of
notice. The rest of Terra would let him down. Still lost in his own
unhappy thoughts, he became vaguely aware that the babble of discussion
was stopping and that one man was raising his voice to get an audience.

It was the Transgalactic representative. He was standing by his place
at the table, talking in the tone of voice used by a professional
lecturer hammering home an unpleasant fact:

"--obvious by the animal ferocity of this Terran, his threats and his
willingness to plunge into physical combat, that he and his kind cannot
be of high culture. I am asked whether or not we may judge an entire
race of people by one man, and I agree that we cannot. But then view
the reaction of his companion who flares up in a fit of red, raw anger,
taking offense at being properly catalogued. I ask you, gentlemen, is
there any excuse for this? Am I not a native male of Marandis? Is she
not a native female of Terra?

"And so by their actions, both violent in nature and unpredictable in
direction, they have shown themselves to be uncouth. Who knows what
offense they will take next? Does a man among us dare to speak freely
with either man or woman of Terra alone and unprotected? No, because
no one can ever know beforehand what peculiarity of their own limited
semantics will be rubbed the wrong way, setting them into a violent
fury. Dusty Britton has boasted that he can take any of us out and wipe
up the street with us. This cannot be denied. But what does it prove?
Only that his shoulders are broad and his back strong and his fists
hard. And that he has been trained in violence.

"Now, gentlemen, consider this next argument: What has Terra to lose?
No more than a familiar night sky, really. The time under the barytrine
field will pass without their notice. As for the time lost in respect
to the rest of the galaxy, since they have had no contact with it, they
cannot be affected by the loss. They prate about losing a thousand
years of advancement. Consider how soon they would be taking to space
if we had not found them. Might it not be yet a thousand years before
contact with the galaxy took place? Yet as it stands now, this man and
this woman will live to see galactic commerce, whereas they would be
dead and gone without ever knowing of the galaxy if Marandis had not
found them. And having been granted that, they still show the ignorant
rebellion of children.

"They have not the foresight to understand that so far as they are
concerned, less than a week of their apparent time will pass before the
ships and men of Marandis will land on Terra in its new surroundings,
to treat with them, to lead them, to educate them, to bring to
Terra all of the glories and benefits of galactic civilization--no,
gentlemen, _to return to Terra its galactic heritage, lost so long ago.
Its birthright returned!_

"And yet what response do we get? Objection and rebellion and threats
of violence. So I ask you, are we to be frightened by this small
primitive world that lies like a barrier across our path? Are we to be
cowed by a show of force? Are we? And if we are, shall we run in fear
from a race of men who bear missile-propelling weapons?

"Look at Dusty Britton and his companion. They sit there angry,
possibly planning their own form of revenge to take place if we have
the temerity to proceed. Then let me ask you, supposing they do object?
Suppose they do resent our meddling in their small lives? Are we to
be frightened of bomb and gun--we who can put them back into their
barytrine field and keep them there until they are willing to agree?
_And without the loss of a life?_ Gentlemen, this whole meeting reminds
me far too much of parents who try to argue logically with children
over bedtime instead of packing the infant off. Who knows what is best?
Child or parent?"