He turned away from the man and sauntered over to Gant Nerley. "I
apologize again," he said. "But I do suggest that our nerves are a bit
short. After all it is hard to sit here and listen to your friends and
fellow-citizens discuss the ways and means of making use of that rift
through the galaxy without once recognizing that we poor devils have to
move out whether we like it or not."

Gant smiled nervously. "I am trying to appreciate your position," he
said. "And in a way I do. But you must try to appreciate ours. We are
not taking anything away from you that you will miss. After all, Dusty,
what do you stand to lose, really?"

Dusty swallowed. It dawned on him what he was doing and why. And also
how he had managed to get away with it so far.

And in these fractions of a second, Dusty probably matured more than he
had grown during the great part of his life.

He realized suddenly that he was only Dusty Britton of The Space
Patrol and as phony as The Space Patrol itself. To date he had done
as good a job of wool-pulling as the best statesmen or scientists,
but only because he was an actor. He had succeeded in convincing the
whole bunch of them that the cultural level of Sol was higher than it
was. A scientist would have admitted his lack because that was the
way scientists operate. A businessman would have been baffled, and
a statesman would have tried to cover his indecision in a gout of
flowery language that would be known for what it was by this bunch of
high-brain characters.

But Dusty was an actor, blunt and not too smart. Modesty is not part
of an actor, while the ability to submerge himself is. He had become
Dusty Britton of The Space Patrol and the hero of a hundred adventures
in space among a people who were hard and fast because they were still
in struggle against their environment. He was tall and strong and young
and handsome, and he was Dusty Britton, fast on the draw, hard on the
trail, and the bes' dam' cabba-yero in all Mehi-co and he had them all
convinced that he and his friends spent their time racing around in
dangerous, imperfect spacecraft powered by reaction motors.

He was Dusty Britton who had plugged Scyth Radnor for playing games
with his woman. Then Dusty Britton had taken the controls of a
completely foreign spacecraft and had driven the ship halfway across
the galaxy through danger and God-knew-what (Dusty did not) horrors and
possible fates. The fact that Gant Nerley and a corps of engineers and
a bank of computing machines had supervised Dusty's every motion and
move did not detract from the feat in their eyes. It added, because
of the sheer guts of a man who would enter an alien ship and have the
self-confidence to touch the tiniest push-button.

He sauntered over to Gant Nerley and said, "Well?"

Gant Nerley was impressed with Dusty's swagger and self-confidence.
So were the rest of the men in the room, with the exception of the
representatives of the two shipping companies, and they had chips on
their shoulders. So Gant Nerley looked around from face to face and
then said, in an official tone:

"It would appear that Terra is of a level of development that mitigates
against immediate action. Therefore we shall declare a recess, during
which time we shall study the Terran people. If Terra measures up,
other steps must be taken."

There was a chorus of "Aye!" and the sound of chairs being pushed back
and the noise of feet on the floor. The babble of voices arose as the
members broke into little groups and began discussing the problem.

But Dusty did not hear them. The self-confidence had oozed out of him
and he slumped in his chair, staring at some shine on a bit of the
table silver, trying to think of something other than the horrible
certainty. For while Dusty Britton had bluffed the Marandanians, he
knew without a shadow of a doubt that his bluff was being called
and it would not stand up. All it would take was the Marandanian
Investigating Committee scouring Terra to find one single man who had
one shred of reason to believe that matter could exceed the velocity
of light. Oh, there were such people. But the man who professed such
opinions believed it because he wanted to believe it; because he hoped
someday that it might be accomplished. He was the man who shrugged
off experiments that followed the rules and acted according to the
equations. He was the man who had faith but no proof.