Scyth Radnor was pleased with himself. The trip had gone well. He
was back on Earth and the barytrine generator was running in the
warm-up cycle, building its field to the magnitude necessary for
synchronization to the fabric of space stress caused by the planet
Earth. It had not been difficult to maneuver himself into this position
of having to run the barytrine generator and in doing so turn up with a
few days of vacation.

He surveyed himself in the mirror and nodded. Then he left the big
spacecraft and embarked on an errand that looked very interesting
indeed.

Eventually, with no adventure worth reporting, Scyth found himself
standing before a door pressing on a button.

Barbara Crandall cracked the door an inch or so and peered out. "Yes?"
she asked. Barbara was not expecting any visitors, and her natural
reaction was to open the door only a few inches until she determined
the person making the call. But the sight of this man in faultless
whites caused her to open the door a full two feet.

"Miss Crandall, I--"

"I don't think I--"

Scyth chuckled again. "Barbara, may I call you Barbara?"

"Oh, now see here--"

"You don't know me?" demanded Scyth with a hurt expression.

"Should I?"

Barbara was beginning to doubt this parley as a program of good sense.
As a stage personality, even though far from a universal popularity,
she knew very well that a completely dull heart frequently beat lustily
beneath an expensive exterior and that a clear, open, friendly face
often went with a mind fit only for the company of scorpions.

He saw her doubt and decided that he had played this guessing game
long enough. "Barbara Crandall, I know you don't recognize me in these
clothes and in this surrounding. Our last meeting was under a rather
strange circumstance. I am Scyth Radnor, the Marandanian."

"Scyth Radnor!" she exclaimed. "I--yes, it is. I'm sorry, Scyth. I did
not recognize you in human clothing."

"Please," he parried, "Don't say it that way. I am as human as you are."

Barbara looked at him defensively. "And you're here to prove it?"

Scyth blinked. She was rather distractingly direct. "There is no
suitable answer to that," he said. "Must I supply one?"

Barbara laughed. "Come in, Scyth. Let me offer you the hospitality of a
drink."

"Pleased," he said, following her into the living room. She waved him
into a chair and turned towards the kitchen.

When she came back with two highballs, Scyth was relaxed in the
loveseat. Barbara noted it with inward amusement and handed him the
drink without comment. Scyth sipped the drink first and then took a
deep and appreciative drink.

"You do have something to offer," he said, not showing his
disappointment that Barbara had seated herself in the chair instead of
on the loveseat beside him.

"That," she said, "makes two items, doesn't it, Scyth?"

Scyth knew that he had lost the initiative; Barbara was way ahead of
him. He tried another tack:

"I came to see how you are making out," he said.

"I'm not doing badly."

"Is the public aware of the impending event?"

"Aware, but not believing. Dusty Britton lost his shirt over this."

"He'll get it back," said Scyth. "I'm not concerned over the result.
It's happened before and it will probably happen again."

"It's more than possible that Dusty will be vindicated but will then be
blamed for not doing something about it," said Barbara.

"That cannot be helped. Dusty couldn't do anything about it, you know.
And if Dusty loses out in the long run, we can't permit the well-being
of one lonely man to stand in the way of galactic progress."