There was one that he recognized instantly. It said, reading from left
to right "Off, Warm-up, Stand-by, Operate." It was a big four-position
hand-lever and it was a good idea, excepting what did Dusty do next?

"Can Scyth help?" pleaded Dusty.

"He's out cold like a Northern Light. Lost blood and--"

"But how'm I to run this godawful thing?"

"I don't know," said Barbara doubtfully. "Try something."

"What?" he asked.

She pointed to a small button high on the front panel beside the glazed
plate. It said, "SC/WBN-3 Phanoband 22".

Dusty looked at the nameplate and the menslator helped him translate
the nameplate into "Space, Commercial/Non-adjustable, High-power,
Emergency--Model Three. Phanoband Twenty-Two."

Dusty looked at Barbara and shrugged. This was an emergency, so Dusty
put out a forefinger and pressed the button.

A pilot lamp winked from blue to red and a meter on the forepanel rose.
There was a momentary whirring from far below in the big star ship and
then along the bottom of the ground-glass looking window in front of
him, a small circle began to grow luminous. A man's face appeared.

He was obviously in some sort of uniform; it had that air. The collar
was high and the effect was uncomfortable. A pair of gold diagrams
glistened on one shoulder. The man looked human enough to be the local
desk-sergeant in costume dress. As soon as the little circle was
completely clear he said tersely:

"Distress Call received. Identify yourself, state your position, define
your danger, and estimate the time remaining in which you have a factor
of safety."

Dusty blinked and then looked at Barbara. She shrugged. Dusty shrugged
back and said, "Are you Marandis?"

"This is Marandis Emergency. Identify yourself, state your pos--"

"Stop talking like a robot--or are you a robot?"

"I am not! What is the meaning of this? Using a distress-call band
for--"

"This is a distress call," snapped Dusty. "And part of the distress is
that I can't identify myself because I don't know the language."

"You'll have--"

"The other part of the distress is that the man who knows all about
this is likely to die of a bad accident if he is not given medical
attention. So now you know, tell me what to do next."

"Who are you?"

"I am Dusty Britton, if that means anything."

"I don't know you."

"Of course not. I've never been to Marandis. I'm not a Marandanian,
just a character of the race your play-mates term 'Backward,' and/or
'Primitive.' But you better do something fast."

"What is the name of the injured party?"

"Scyth Radnor."

"Then your identity is Exploration License K-221-Y. I know Radnor.
I must get you off the distress band. Please switch to Space
Communications, Band Forty-Five. I--"

"Wait," said Dusty quickly. "As a member of another solar culture you
must be aware of the fact that I am not familiar with your equipment.
Which knob do I twist and how far?"

The Marandanian gave Dusty instructions and waited for a second small
circle to appear beside the first, with a different face in it. This
face was older and not in uniform. The man said, "Please explain the
nature of your difficulty. I am Gant Nerley."

As well as he could, under the circumstances, Dusty explained his
predicament.

"I see," said Gant Nerley thoughtfully. "This is a rather complex
problem to solve. Can you state your location?"

"Hardly."

"I suppose not. If we don't know where you are from here, the chance
that a non-galactic culture would know where we are from there is
indeed remote."

"Haven't you a filed plan of operations?" demanded Dusty, using a tone
of voice that indicated that he thought that any culture above the
level of the ape wouldn't let people go galloping all over the galaxy,
tearing up stars and ruining scenery without first having filed a
program and had such program approved by twenty-seven signatures.

"There is a filed plan," said Nerley defensively. "But naturally it is
sealed as a matter of protection for the company."

"And no provision for emergency?"

"Only by the consent of the licensed company."

"Then you'd better call a conference at once. Scyth isn't going to last
long enough for you to comb the galaxy for us."

"That's why it might be better to let the barytrine field run to
completion."