They stood on a small reviewing stand, Dusty Britton and the Group
Command that had come through the thicket of trees in time to steer
their blinded Commander away from the flaring barytrine generator.
Dusty's face and hands were a super-sunburned red, and his eyes were
still puffy but open enough to see.

From a sheet of paper he read:

"It is not within my power to grant a medal that is worth the tin it is
made of. But for the diligence and their quick action I do hereby grant
and guarantee them full scholarships in White Sands University, which
by the time they graduate will have become a full Space Academy. So I
here hand them their Certificates of Entry, and to the President of
White Sands University I deliver a certified check to be held in trust
and used for their education.

"I salute the future Commanders of The Space Patrol and step down from
my position to leave it open for them!"

There came a roar from the crowd that thundered across the field as
Dusty stepped from the platform into a spaceport jeep and was hustled
out to Gant Nerley's flagship. Inside there were a number of men
waiting.

"Now see here, Dusty, you can't go galaxy-hopping when we've got plans
for you."

Dusty eyed Martin Gramer with a grunt. "Last time we met in a place
like this you had me all scheduled to take a space hop when I had other
plans for myself. No dice, Gramer."

"But look at the money--"

"I'll make millions out of this clear-channel idea, according to Gant,
here."

"That's right," said Gant.

"So," said Dusty, "if you think I'm going to go on playing the part of
a broken-down hero-spaceman when there are real spacemen around, you're
nuts, Gramer. Include me--as you've said so often--out."

"But what are you going to do?"

"Me? I'm going to Marandis. Barb and I have an offer from Supergalaxy
Spectacles to make a series of what they call 'Primitives.' You know,
old-timers with men using chemical rockets and learning their first
feeble steps into space."

He grinned at Barbara knowingly. "I've got a script of _Destination
Moon_ I swiped from Central Files. It should oughta wow 'em cold!"