By this time Dusty figured that he might as well let Gant Nerley have
it cold and hard. It would show Gant that the mighty Marandanian was no
more distant from the lusty chimpanzee than the terrestrian.

"No," he said flatly, "Scyth was plugged for monkeying around another
man's woman."

Gant said, "Deplorable," in a tone of voice that indicated an amused
disgust, but not easily identified as to whether over the act itself or
the business of being caught at it. "What happened?"

"The other guy shot first," said Dusty, feeling that this was no time
to point out that it was he that pulled the trigger.

"I'm not surprised. Most primitives are inclined to be both hot-headed
and impulsive."

"Tell me," asked Dusty in a cooing voice, "did Scyth confine his amours
to primitives, or is it the custom among Marandanians to consider your
mate unattractive unless she can prove it by bedding down with an
impressive list of lovers?"

"I don't understand," replied Gant Nerley stiffly.

"Against primitives I can understand Scyth carrying a weapon to his
assignation, for protection against the irate cuckold. Tell me, Gant
Nerley, has your emotional balance become so stable that you can take a
more scholarly view of promiscuity? Or," added Dusty sharply, "do you
have big black headlines about triangle slayings and love-nest scandals
just like the rest of humanity?"

"Well, now, we--"

"Then don't blame us primitive souls for slugging a guy that's caught
off base!" snapped Dusty. "Now, what are we going to do about Scyth?"

"Regardless of his depredations against propriety, he must be given
medical attention."

"This I will go along with. How shall we start? I can always take him
to one of our hospitals."

"No. No! You must not."

"Why not? We're quite competent on gunshot wounds. We're probably more
used to them than you are, as primitives with impulse and hot blood."

"Please. Let's not be facetious over any man's misfortune."

"In blunt words, the life of a character caught in an awkward situation
is more important than someone else losing their familiar stellar
scenery and a couple of thousand years of climb up from the swamp of
ignorance?"

"That is another question which I'm sure we can solve. Now--"

"Look," said Dusty firmly, "you agree to take measures for our safety
and we'll agree to take measures for Scyth's. Do you understand exactly
what I mean or shall I explain in very blunt words?"

"That is blackmail."

"It's worse than that. But we're primitive, and therefore lacking in
refinement. As far as I am concerned, Transgalactic can keep their
secret of our position locked in their sealed file. Scyth can die, and
Bren and Chat can spend the rest of their lives marooned on Mercury."

"No. That wouldn't be right. You must bring Scyth back home."

"That's a fine idea! May I suggest that your ship is not as familiar as
mine?" Dusty did not mention that the only control room he was familiar
with was the one on the Gramer Production Lot, which was an aggregation
of fantastic levers and flashing lights and futuristic three-phase
busbars which had a most profound effect upon the imagination of the
youth of the land but no effect upon space whatsoever.

"This can be taken care of. As a spaceman, you can understand the
principles. They are simple. You can follow directions for flight."

"Yes? And which way do I go from here?"

"Not so fast. First, Dusty Britton, tell me the present condition of
Scyth Radnor."

"Wait."