Barbara Crandall opened the door for a quick glance, then opened it
wide. "Oh. It's you!"

Dusty nodded glumly. "Yeah. Surprised?"

Barbara shrugged. "A bit. When did they let you out?"

"This morning."

"Rough?"

"You said it. Was it rough on you?"

"A little, but it's been made up for."

"How come?" asked Dusty looking up.

She smiled quietly. "I've got legs and a figure," she chuckled. "I've
been cheesecaked all over town as the _Star Girl_ and there's talk of
my getting a part in the Jack Vandal series over at Cosmic Studios."

"How so? Seems to me that we're both sort of washed up."

Barbara shook her head. "Jack Vandal is a sort of cheerful villain,
you know. He takes delight in bumping off the well-protected crook who
can't be touched by the law. He's hunted by the police and hated by the
underworld--"

"Spare the gruesome details. They haven't changed in a couple of
thousand years. How come you're not in the dog house?"

Barbara smiled. "Because the woman in that kind of opus is always a
sort of shady lady herself. It wouldn't do to have an innocent virgin
for the companion of a buccaneer. So with my slightly tarnished
reputation I'm a natural. What happened to you?"

"The lie detector test."

Barbara blinked. "Then didn't that prove your point?"

"I thought it did. But I forgot one thing. Seems that the lie detector,
no matter how good, is capable only of showing whether the character is
telling a falsehood or not."

Barbara smiled confidently. "So you were telling the truth. Weren't
you?"

"Sure," grunted Dusty. "Sure I was. But, quoting what's-his-name in the
Bible: 'What is Truth?' One of the court psychologists pointed it out
very clearly. If I firmly believe that the moon turned bright purple
at ten o'clock last night, under a lie detector I'd be credited with a
'Truth' when I said so. In fact, the damned thing would say that I was
telling a lie if I believed that the moon was purple and tried to cover
up by saying that it hadn't changed. Follow?"

"So what was the verdict?"

"The verdict was to the effect that I was suffering under some
hallucination--possibly induced by alcohol--which led me into this
story. Therefore my lie-detector acquittal was valid only to prove that
my call for help was, at the time, due to my personal conviction of
danger. I was adjudged temporarily incompetent."

"What kind of sentence? They didn't just let you go."

"I've been two weeks in the observation ward of the federal looney
locker. You see, to prove me guilty, they had to show that I had
willfully and maliciously transmitted a false signal, with intent to
deceive and/or for some personal reason. Willful tampering of this
nature comes out as malicious mischief; malicious tampering becomes
a federal offence. Maybe I've got my terms mixed up, but I think you
get the idea, anyway. The end-up was this: Dusty Britton was convinced
of his personal danger, his emission of a distress signal cannot be
called malicious. I am no longer the top star I was once--in fact
Gramer has cancelled my contract on the moral turpitude clause and the
McDougall Office has black-balled me from all productions. So after a
couple of weeks of observation at the spin-bin, they let me free with
an admonition to leave the stuff alone. Barb, have you got a drink?"

"Sure thing. Look, Dusty, I know what you must think, but please don't
ask me to corroborate your story. Not again."