Brows furrowed and lips pursed, the physicist thought for a long time
and then looked apologetically at Dusty.

"I may be off the beam, Dusty, but I have a notion that your own
mind put it together this way: Phan probably pertains to the roots
of phantom, or unreal, or ghostly, or what is commonly referred to
as the 'supernatural.' The so-called supernatural is invariably a
phenomenon which cannot be explained by commonly accepted academic
theory or empirical practise, mostly because the folks who work with it
have neither academic nor empirical data. Incidentally, the 'o' part
of this first phase is undoubtedly a conjunctive vowel stuffed into
the word so that it can be uttered without losing a couple of front
teeth or blowing a vocal fuse, or maybe spraying the listener like a
professional German lecturer. So let's accept the concept of 'Phan' as
something that you cannot explain in common terms."

"Go on, Doc. You're reducing my case to an absurdity, you know."

"I'm sorry, Dusty, but that's how I see it. Now, let's take the 'Band'
part of the word. As a disciple of Maxwell, et al, I am hopelessly
incapable of concocting a workable theory of radiation which has
nothing to do with some basic concept of frequency. Frequency, when you
sit down and start analyzing it, is a nice, stable idea that explains
a hell of a lot, Dusty, and as you get into atomics you find that
particle radiation can be mathematically reduced to terms of frequency.
You can actually compute the equivalent frequency of a thrown baseball
or a .22 rifle bullet, you know. Then we get to that high-flung miracle
we call 'resonance' and God protect me from having to deliver a
thirty-minute explanation of resonance."

"I won't ask you to, Doc. But aren't you getting involved in your own
traps?"

"Yes, I am. And I'm sorry. But I can't help it. But you can follow my
fumblings, Dusty. In the first place the radiation is not understood,
which explains your accepting the mental concept as 'Phano' and because
the physics of the radiation must be other than electromagnetic--which
would call for the menslation into 'spectrum' the somewhat ambiguous
term 'band' is assigned in your mental concept of the idea. So the
literal menslation of the word is: 'Unknown mode of radiation' which--"

"But where are we getting, Doc?"

"That's what I was approaching, Dusty. This harangue boils down to the
following: these people have a form or type of energy level which is
completely inexplicable to terrestrial science at the present state of
the art. Their terms, when menslated into our level of appreciation,
come out as 'something that works' and 'something that cannot be
defined' which, after all, is like trying to explain to a savage why a
hunk of black rock always turns toward one direction."

"Hell!"