The doctor continued. "Sure. It's hell. Even your own term 'menslator'
which I've picked up as a fine concept is only your own feeble
transliteration of the definition. It does not carry any of the basic
theory. So the fantastic gizmo merely aids in the conveying of an idea
from one mind to another, despite the fact that the two minds place
different values upon the definition of words."

"But this isn't what I'm getting at, Doc. What I want to know is:
granting the possibility of faster-than-light velocities, what have we
got to explain it?"

"Nothing. Nothing but your own statements that you believe that this
is possible and that someone has done it. None of us have any evidence
that it is possible, except you. And I am afraid that I must question
your training as a scientific observer."

"But, Doc, I--"

"Let's face it, Dusty. You swing about as much weight in scientific
circles as Suzy Richtmeyer, voted last year as Miss Alphatron, parked
on the Caltech boo-hucky showing about three yards of shapely nylon
and thirty-two well-polished teeth. She was gorgeous but ill-educated,
Dusty. She wasn't afraid of getting sterile in a radiation lab. She
was afraid of getting pregnant. But if you sit there and ask me how
anybody could possibly make any sound and workable theory out of what
you describe, I can't see it."

"Look, Doc, maybe I can't deliver much. But they were there and that's
what the guy told me."

"There's only one hope, Dusty."

Dusty Britton looked at Dr. Ross; with a voice of determination he
said, "Doc, if there's any hope, let me know how?"

"You've claimed that this galactic gang have some humanitarian
instincts. They aren't just going to set fire to good old Sol and let
us alternately fry and freeze."

"Stop kidding me."

"Maybe I'm not kidding. I'm still promulgating on your own cockeyed
plenum."

"You're not giving me much--"

Dr. Ross sat back confidently. "No, dammit, I can't say that I give
much credit to your cockeyed story, Dusty."

"Now see here--"

"Now _you_ see here," snapped the physicist sternly, "I won't deny that
anything is possible. But I am a firm believer in the law of least
reaction, and I think that this covers the case. If this character
Scyth is at all concerned about our welfare--still granting that
he does exist elsewhere but in your own mind--then get this, Dusty
Britton: he will be back to see how you've made out in your program of
preparing people for the big change before he turns on this barytrine
generator."

Dusty eyed Dr. Ross sourly. "And what is your explanation of that word?"

"Easy, and it means no more than anything else when it is what you
call menslated. 'Bary' stems from the root 'heavy' as in 'barytone'
referring to something of heavy voice or highly accented. 'Trine'
refers to something threefold in astronomical or--er--astrological
(haruumpf) meaning. My God, Dusty, the word itself pertains to
something as three-times-as-heavy. You don't expect me--or any
other scientist--to come up with something sensible from a bunch
of half-baked definitions, do you? All you've given me so far is a
workable theory, an unknown medium of radiation, and something that
is three-times-heavy. Tell you what, chum. Bring me your Scyth Radnor
and introduce me. I know guys who would analyze MacBeth's three
witches' brew if they could get a microgram sample. But not from that
gobble-gabble about the 'fillet of a fenny snake, in the cauldron
boil & bake!' line out of Shakespeare." The physicist went on in an
undertone, "Eye of frog and tongue of newt," until Dusty stood up and
prepared to leave.