Barbara smiled thinly, "Dusty, no one on earth would ever accuse you
of being anything but a Hollywood actor in that get-up. But a man from
halfway across the Galaxy itself might not know about these things. You
might be an Admiral of the Swiss Navy. You're impressive-looking. Just
don't get pompous."

"Just you remember that I'm Dusty Britton of The Space Patrol and don't
giggle when I start dishing it out."

"I won't. After all, I call myself an actress, you know." She looked
nervously at the viewpanel.

"Are you all right?" he demanded.

"Yes. I'm nervous but I'll be all right."

Dusty went over to her and put his hands on her shoulders. "Take a deep
breath," he commanded. She did. "Now let it out slowly." She did that,
too. "Now," he said softly, slipping an arm around her and leading
her to the stairway, "You come down below and relax. Pull yourself
together, Barb. We'll make it--somehow."

"Got any ideas?"

"Not yet. But--"

Above, the voice of Gant Nerley came back. Dusty raced aloft and
apologized for having been absent. Gant was nodding with admiration at
something below the level of the view panel, probably something on the
desk.

Gant looked up after a moment and said, "Dusty Britton, this is really
a remarkable route. Truly fantastic. So well hidden, and yet right
within our grasp all of these centuries! Well, you shall see, Dusty.
And doubtless you will agree."

"Okay," said Dusty, "let's get going."

"Not so fast, young man. I'm waiting for the direction-finding stations
to report so that I can determine where along this prospected route you
lie."

"We're about two-thirds of the way out from the center, I believe,"
offered Dusty.

"That's a rather inaccurate generality. You know where you are and
we know where we are, but we must know where we are with respect
to one another before we can make contact. Now--" Gant's voice
stopped suddenly as something caught his eye above the lens of the
viewpanel, and he looked over Dusty's head, apparently, so intently
that Dusty himself turned to see what Gant was staring at. He saw
only instruments, and realized that Gant was looking at another
panel-section above the one that communicated with Dusty's panel.

"Um," said Gant. "You would appear to lie in what we call 'Sector
G-18, Co-ordinate 307, Galactic Angle 215.86-plus degrees, South
altitude-angle 1.017-minus degrees, Co-frame 9654.' Now, Dusty, in your
terms, where lies the Galactic Center?"

Dusty laughed. The tone of his laugh was half bitter and half a note of
self-disparagement. "Sorry, Gant. We frame our reference from Terra,
naturally."

Dusty breathed a sigh of relief at having boned up on enough science to
play his part convincingly.

"I do not quite understand what you mean," returned Gant.

"We compute stellar positions in latitude from the angle above or below
the equator of Terra, which we call 'Declination' and in longitude by
their rise as the planet rotates, which we call 'Right Ascension'.
Therefore the so-called 'Celestial equator' is a projection of the
Earth's equator upon the sky, and the colures pass from celestial pole
to celestial pole, which are projections of Terra's axis. Now, since
the Earth's equator is tilted with respect to the Earth's orbit, and
the Earth's orbit is tilted with respect to the Galactic Equator, I'll
be darned if I know how to explain in mutual terms. Oh, we assume that
the galactic center is in a region of the sky we call 'Sagittarius' but
that is meaningless."

"I agree. Wait a moment."