"What are we going to do about Sol?" asked Gant Nerley seriously. Dusty
eyed the Marandanian soberly. "Leave it alone, I hope."

"You realize what you are asking?"

"My God! Do we have to go through all that mishmash again?"

"Again?"

Dusty slammed the table with his fist hard enough to make the glassware
jump. "Again and again. I'm getting sick and tired of explaining all
the many reasons why none of us want to move to another star and lose
a thousand years. And then being told that after all it won't hurt a
bit, and besides this move is necessary--and if we don't move willingly
we'll be moved anyway forcibly."

"Why are you so angry?"

Dusty looked at Gant Nerley and sat down wearily. "Because," he said
patiently, "all of us know that no matter what, you're going to go on
and do it anyway--but not until you've forced yourself to believe that
you have convinced us that we should accept this kick in the pants
gracefully."

"It isn't that simple."

"No?"

"No, it isn't. You see, we are bound by our own laws to hold to certain
programs under certain conditions. It is the conditions which prevail
that we are attempting to define, outline, determine, and pin down so
that we know what lawful action may be taken."

"You sound like a bureaucrat explaining away an awkward situation. Just
what do you mean by conditions and programs?"

Gant picked them off on his fingers. "There are the following," he
said. "First would be a race--remember I am talking about all the
races of mankind strewn across the galaxy; the races that are us, you
and we and all the rest that stem from a single source, the origin of
which is lost in the antiquity of a hundred thousand years. So, first
would be a race which was still in the growing-up stage, say the mound
building, early agricultural, perhaps later, in early metal. An age of
no true scientific grasp; what little of science they know has come
by guesswork, blundering discovery and hit-or-miss experiment. Such
a race could be moved across space without a qualm, because it would
only bring about a rather deep period of superstitious horror and a
religious fear. A few hundred years later the tale would be completely
discounted, because the astronomers would be rising and stating flatly
that no agency in the universe could change the constant stars. The
old sky would be wiped out of men's memory in a couple of generations,
although it might remain in myth and fairy tale for a long time. Such a
set of conditions would permit the moving program without a qualm."

Gant looked at Dusty. "Understand?"

"Sure," replied Dusty indifferently. "Go on."

"Then on the other end of the scale we have the advanced race. They
have discovered the phanobands, know about space flight and perhaps
have colonized the planets of other stars say within ten to fifty
light-years. A race of this stage of development would understand and
grasp the problem quickly. Then having been shown the problem, they
would make the move willingly and no doubt help, because they would
understand that their destiny is a part of the Galactic Destiny."

"Oh, yeah? You mean to say that if Marandis were found to lie across
the road like a stone wall you would all happily toss Marandis into a
barytrine field for a thousand years?"