So Dusty Britton, who could portray a reasonably convincing role of a
wounded hero while mentally contemplating how long it would be before
the first preprandial martini, plus being the flamboyant type who never
lets a few facts stop his flow of words, was not abashed to let on that
he knew a lot more than the Marandanian suspected. Furthermore, Dusty
felt that he had Gant Nerley on the defensive, and if he could put the
Marandanian off balance long enough to accomplish something, Dusty did
not care if Nerley accused him of being a four-flusher at some later
date.

Keeping this in mind, Dusty braced himself with little effort and tried
to reduce to bafflegab what he recalled of Scyth Radnor's previous
statements.

"Interstellar travel is, of course, based upon obvious errors in the
theoretical mathematics of general relativity," said Dusty, as though
he were reciting some of the science-double-talk usually included in
Dusty Britton And The Space Patrol. "Of the many schools of thought
which have their own theories on how to explain these obvious errors,
the group-velocity field seems to be the most successful. But all
of them are seeking some evidence to support their theories, and a
couple of them, namely the gravitic and the magnetic-field proponents
claim that such evidence has already supported their claim. Now, if
such is the case, you know it will not be long before some practical
experiment will disprove the illogic of providing a finite limit to an
infinite system. Once this has been established it seems obvious that
star-travel is the next step."

"Hmmm--I see. This is a situation that must be considered more
carefully. May I ask, Dusty Britton, what is your position in your
society?"

"I am Dusty Britton of The Space Patrol," said Dusty with the proper
tone of respect. "Commander in Chief of the Junior Division."

"Indeed! A real Space Patrol!"

Dusty nodded at the viewscreen. "It may be a bit ambitious," he
remarked with even more deference, carefully studied. "But we feel
that there is small point in using a conservative name and then having
to change it every couple of years."

"Quite a sensible attitude."

Dusty nodded again. "Fact is," he said deprecatingly, "we would
probably be quite a bit more advanced in our space operations if our
sister planets were not so inimical to human life. As it is, our
extra-planetary operations are limited and will be limited until we can
provide the necessary conversions to terrestrial conditions."

Gant Nerley nodded back. "Man is not an adaptable animal," he observed.
"He does not change himself to suit his environment; he changes his
environment to suit himself."

"That's what I mean."

"Then why do you object so much to this barytrine field?" asked Gant
Nerley. "We can always pick you a stellar group less inimical to human
life and thus advance you faster."

Dusty grunted under his breath. He had talked too much. "Buster," he
said angrily, "logic like that will only get you a fat lip."

Gant Nerley blinked. "Tell me, Dusty, was Scyth Radnor hurt in some
altercation over this beacon?"