Barbara thought for a minute and then went on, "And if we could direct
the entire Earth, and could call upon anything or anyone, we wouldn't
know where to start. What is a phanoband? Why is a barytrine field?
Even I know that there are a couple of dozen rather brilliant men who
believe that the speed of light is not a limiting velocity, but this is
only a conviction, not founded on any experimental evidence. So maybe
you've got a firm inner drive to go out and prove yourself. But how in
the hell are you going to make headway against a race that considers us
primitive?"

"We've got to make contact."

"How? Shall we call Mercury on the phanoband communicators? And what
was that intermediary step? The machinus fields? It sounds like
double-talk to me."

"It was something about abandoning general relativity for the machinus
theory of space-time," said Dusty, bringing into focus all the science
fiction he had ever read.

"Got any theories?" asked Barbara pointedly. "Frankly, Dusty, I'd like
to help, but I feel too much like a man trying to come all the way from
the stone age to the atom bomb in ten days. In order to circumvent
their foul plan we've got to abandon a very workable theory in favor
of an unknown something called the machinus theory of space-time, and
then from that we develop something called phanoband radiation, which
produces factors enabling us to reduce the theory to practise and
eventually we take to deep space, find Marandis, and put our case in
front of some sort of bureaucratic something-or-other. Can't see it,
Dusty."

"So what am I supposed to do?"

"Sit and take it. What else can you do? Darn it, Dusty, you can't fight
them, and you aren't in any position to join them. We haven't got the
initiation fee, we don't have the address, and we hardly talk the
language."

Dusty looked at her sourly. "I'd hoped you'd help," he said unhappily.
"You at least know what the score is."

"Dusty, I'd like to help. I do know what the score is. It's hopeless.
You're trapped in an awkward position. And like a lot of other people,
you are in a position where you can't do a damned thing about it. So
you might as well save your high blood pressure and start looking
around to see what you can make out of it."

Dusty finished his drink and left. In a trash-can by the alley was
a Dusty Britton Blaster, complete with holster and a tin medal for
sharpshooting. The school-store across the street was displaying a
Jack Vandal mask and a small case containing ten candy cigarettes and
a secret compartment suitable for concealing ten-thousand dollar bills
lifted from lawless characters who might have used the dough to bribe
juries or buy professional gunmen.

Dusty made his way along the street unrecognized.