Across to the wrecked spacer he went, boldly breaching the ruined
spacelock. Along the corridor he went warily until he came to the
control room. He kicked the door open and walked in, poised lightly on
the balls of his feet, lithe and ready to spring like a stalking cat.

Then Dusty Britton faced his arch-enemy, Roger Fulton. Roger Fulton
wore a three-day beard, his clothing was stained and torn and his hair
unkempt. Fulton watched Britton with cold, angry eyes.

"Now," said Dusty Britton harshly, "Let's have it, Roger!"

Very slowly and very carefully, Roger Fulton's hands found the buckle
of his blaster-belt and unfastened it. He let it drop, putting out a
leg so that belt and blaster slid easily to the floor. As it reached
his toe, Roger Fulton kicked it to one side. He shook his head and
sneered at Dusty Britton.

"I should draw and fight the fastest man in The Space Patrol?" sneered
Roger Fulton. "I surrender. You'll never blast an unarmed man, Britton!"

Dusty tossed his head. Keeping one eye on Roger Fulton, Dusty sidled
across the control room to where Barbara Crandall was tied to a chair.
Her eyes were soft for Dusty as he stripped the gag from her mouth and
untied her bonds with his left hand. She sat up, rubbing her wrists and
working her mouth, trying to tell Dusty something important that would
not come through the cramped muscles.

Dusty turned to Roger Fulton. "I've waited for this moment," he said.
Quickly he unbuckled his own blaster and tossed it aside. Then he
stalked forward, poised to strike, his hands opening and closing at his
sides. "Man to man, Fulton. That is, if there's enough man in you to
fight!"

Roger Fulton crowed, "Sucker!" and went into whirlwind action. His hand
darted inside his shirt and came out with a tiny miniblast.

There came the throbbing sound of raw energy and a flash that blinded.
Yellowish smoke curled out and surrounded the scene. Barbara Crandall
screamed and tried to get to her feet but the hours of being tied had
numbed her muscles and she fell back into her chair helplessly. The
yellowish cloud billowed higher in the control room and began to thin.

Then out of the cloud walked Dusty Britton. He held his right hand by
the wrist, shaking it with his left. "Stunned a bit," he smiled bravely.

"But how--?"

Dusty opened the fingers of his right hand and let a miniblast fall
to the floor, its charge gone, its usefulness ended. "He tried the
old hidden-gun trick," said Dusty. "But two can play that game. Roger
Fulton will never menace honest spacemen again!"

The music swelled as the scene faded out; a cheer from Dusty's crew
finished off one more opus of Dusty Britton and The Space Patrol.

It was a special occasion, this showing. It was Noon in New Mexico,
but the showing had gone out across a worldwide instantaneous network
no matter what time it was at the receiving end. In some places it was
late in the morning, in some places early, others had this showing late
at night. But people were watching back and forth across the face of
the Earth.

The film came to end, there was the white flash, then an intermittent
flicker as cross-country synchronization took hold. (This flicker was
done with an eye toward the dramatic; worldwide networks could latch in
without a wink of the screen anywhere in the world.) An announcer came
on with the statement that everybody had been waiting for:

"And now we take you to Dusty Britton in person, from White Sands
Spaceport in New Mexico!"

A flash and a thundering boom shattered the air and a sonorous voice
announced: "X Minus Thirty Minutes!"