The nurse nodded. "You're very attractive," she said with no trace of
jealousy or envy. "I can see Scyth getting side-tracked along your
direction. I am a little disappointed in Scyth--seems to me he could do
better than a frauland for you."

"Better than a what?"

"Frauland. That bauble he gave you. You wouldn't know, of course,
but it comes from Selira, a stellar colony not far from here. It's
incredibly cheap."

Barbara tore the chain getting the bauble away from her. "Next time,"
she promised sharply, "I'll plug Scyth Radnor myself!"

The nurse shuddered a bit. Dusty merely laughed and said, "So now we
know where we stand. And now knowing, I'm hungry."

"Of course. We'll all dine at the meeting."

"Oh?"

"Naturally. You're here, aren't you? Marandis is not going to send you
back without a chance for you to present your case. There is a joint
meeting of the Bureaus of Galactic Navigation and New Colonial Affairs.
It will start with a formal breakfast during which no business will
be conducted. Then, once you are all acquainted with one another, the
business of the day will be discussed and a decision rendered."

She led them to the spacelock and Dusty Britton had his first glimpse
of a Marandanian spaceport. There was precious little to see, which
made it even more stunning to the senses.

The size of the place was completely obscured by spacecraft which stood
like the trunks in a pine forest. Most of the craft were larger than
Dusty's and so obscured his vision. Between those nearby (which were
rather wide-set) there were others at a little distance, and beyond
them there were still others, and behind those others were more
and more and more until all that could be seen were the tips of the
upthrust noses. The horizon was an irregular pattern of pointed shapes
that was somewhat reminiscent of the Greek egg and dart moulding of
ancient architecture.

Through some of the more distant lines of sight, the far spacecraft had
a haze around it, as though it were miles and miles away.

There was not a building to be seen, only spacecraft.

Dusty gave up trying to penetrate the forest to the edge of the 'port
and directed his attention to his nearby surroundings.

A road wound around in a zigzag manner, meeting and dividing around
each ship. There was an empty landing block not far from them, and
after a bit of puzzled interest--the shape of the block caught
Dusty's memory--he decided that the landing block was hexagonal. So
were all the rest of the landing blocks. Hexagonal pattern, like the
well-known hexagon tile floor; the road was the marker-lines between
the hex-shaped landing blocks. Those that were empty showed the effect
of heavy masses parked on them; a bit of char now and then; a chip or a
crack, probably made by a rough landing; a deep seam repaired with some
sort of cement or concrete (or whatever the Marandanians had devised
or discovered as a superior material) and at least one place where
the edge of the block had been chipped deeply as though the pilot had
missed his landing point and come down on the edge of the hexagonal
block.