Scyth eyed Dusty queerly. His thoughts would have been obvious to
anybody but Dusty and Barbara. Scyth was trying to justify in his own
mind the attitude of a High Brass in The Space Patrol (_any_ space
patrol) who would not enter a spacecraft. Scyth finally decided that
Dusty's reticence was due to Dusty's suspicious nature. Dusty was
unarmed and he was not getting into a spacecraft capable of carrying
him across the galaxy, perhaps operated by other members of the crew.
There were no other members, but the ship was big enough to have many.
Scyth nodded to himself and smiled at Dusty.

"As you prefer. I only repeat that I mean no harm and I add that the
salon inside is pleasant. We can all have a--"

"We've got a drink," blurted Dusty. He turned on his heel and got the
quart from the seat by the helm. He stopped to get a third glass. He
poured.

Scyth tasted gingerly. "Very smooth," he said. "What is it?"

"Bourbon."

"Bourbon. Tastes like an excellent liquor. Thank you. Now--" Scyth sat
down on the edge of the deck with his feet hanging into the cockpit
and settled himself for a session. "Dusty, we are here because we are
creating a beacon for our galactic spacelanes."

"Beacon?"

Scyth nodded. "You have the insular viewpoint," he remarked. "You can
stand at night and point out your destination. But you cannot even see
Marandis from here, even with the finest telescope ever built. Stars
lie in the way, huge gas fields and nebular clouds block fast direct
passage. To chart our course safely past such stellar menaces, we
establish beacons at the ends of certain free passages. For instance,
Sol lies at the end of a fifteen hundred light year straightaway from
the last beacon we set up. Here at Sol a slight turn in the course
is made and there is another straightaway for a thousand light-years
toward the Spiral Cluster. We--my friends and I--are charting the
course through a rather interesting rift from Marandis to the Spiral
Cluster. This rift, along which you lie, has been hidden from us for
thousands of years. When it is finished it will cut hours from our
travel-time."

"And maybe so. But what is a beacon and how do you establish it?"

"Dusty, when a spacecraft is running at fifteen hundred light-years
per hour, a three-day-variable star winks in the sky ahead like a
blinker-light." Scyth chopped his left palm rapidly with the edge
of his right hand. "Wink-wink-wink it goes. And the pilot puts his
spacecraft point-of-drive on the beacon and holds it there until he
passes it and aims to the next. You--"

"Variable star!" blurted Dusty.

"Yes. The three-day variables are used for course markers; the longer
variables are used to denote gas fields, nebular dust, and the like,
and the still-longer beacons are used to denote places where various
well-travelled starlanes meet, cross or merge. It is--"

"Three day variable--" breathed Dusty.

"Yes. In three days Sol will rise ten times its present brightness and
fall again to less than one tenth of the present brightness. This is
accomplished by creating an atomic instab--"

"My God! How can any race live under such conditions?"

"They cannot. Not unless properly prepared, well taken care of, aware
and ready for it."

"Look," snapped Dusty. "Why not go out and use some other star for your
damned beacon?"

Scyth shook his head. "If we were gods," he said quietly, "we could
park the Galaxy on our desk, pick up a broom-straw and by fitting and
trying we could locate the best course through the star-fields. But--"

"If you were gods," grunted Dusty bitterly, "you could reach in and
move a few stars aside and run your damned channel on a dead line from
one end to the other. So why do you use Sol?"

"Because the two straightaway lanes that meet at Sol do not meet at
some other star. In one or two cases along this rift the original
surveyors provided alternates in case we ran into trouble. But not on
this one. No, Dusty, we cannot change our plans."

"But see here--"

"Dusty, you wouldn't stand in the way of Galactic Civilization, would
you?"

"You're damn well tootin' I would if it's going to mow me down if I
don't."

Scyth said soothingly, "Doubtless you have cases on your Earth where a
state highway is surveyed right through someone's home. Tell me, Dusty,
what happens then?"

"We buy the property at a fair price so that the family can find
another home of the same value."

"So you don't stand like a barrier in the way of advancement."

"No we don't. But where are we--" Dusty eyed Scyth with a frown.
"You're not going to tell me that your gang will migrate the people of
Earth to another solar system, lock, stock and barrel?"

"That would be impossible, of course."

Dusty grunted. "So we gotta alternately cook and freeze just so your
outfit can run a goddamned traffic pattern through our living room?"

"Well, now, it's not that bad," said Scyth placatingly.