It looked like any photographs of one of the galaxies taken through a
telescope except that this model was dotted here and there with winking
pinpoints and stringed through and through with thin lines that glowed
in many colors, some solid colors and some in two-color spirals,
like coded wire cable. Here and there were faintly glowing spherical
volumes containing many stars, or rectangular volumes confined by
planes of faint color-glow. Certain of these clusters were linked with
other clusters by the zigzag lines that wound and interwove around and
through in a tangled skein.

Gant Nerley picked up a small cylinder from a rack on the railing of
the catwalk. A narrow pencil of light pointed out, and he aimed it
towards the center, some five hundred feet out to the middle of the
hall. "Marandis," he said. Then he brought the pointer-light across
towards them slowly, to stop a hundred feet from their position.
"Sol," he said. "The lines are courses surveyed and registered by
the various companies, you can gather that the colored stars are our
inhabited systems and the volumes register certain clusters. That faint
greenish-yellow course that ends out there by Sol is the Transgalactic
course set up to reach from Marandis to the Spiral Cluster which lies
almost at our feet."

The magnificence of the spectacle was enhanced by the silence in the
room. The galaxy, it seemed, lay at their feet and with no irreverence,
and only awe, the viewer felt as though he were standing by the side of
God, looking down at his Work.

In a hushed voice, Dusty asked, "Is this where they survey the courses?
Couldn't figure out a way around Sol?"

Gant laughed sympathetically, breaking the hushed awe. "Look at it and
think, Dusty Britton."

Dusty looked, and Barbara looked, both in awed silence as Gant Nerley
went on:

"In that model, which looks like a wisp of gas, there are fifteen
billion individual pinpoints. Think, Dusty. One-five, comma,
zero-zero-zero, comma, zero-zero-zero, comma, zero-zero-zero stars
in one galaxy. Across the breadth of this room it lies, scaled down
to represent the hundred thousand light-years of its diameter at the
rate of a hundred light-years to the foot. Eight and one third light
years per inch, Dusty Britton, so your Sol and your Sirius lie about
an inch apart. Now, Dusty, in order to make the stars visible, they
must be above a certain intrinsic size, and in the size of the stars
the scale of the model is violated. Each tiny glowing point is about
one-sixteenth of an inch in diameter. That makes the scalar size of the
stars about a half light year in diameter. The diameter of the colored
lines that represent courses is of the same magnitude, so as we go into
the model--as we may--we will find that the courses touch, intersect,
and lie tangent to stars that are actually far from the flight in real
space.

"What I am saying, of course, is only a new concept of something that
you already know, but pertaining to another subject with which you have
every right to be more familiar. Take a globe of your Terra. It is
excellent for locating areas, finding cities, lakes, oceans, mountain
ranges; anything gross enough to find physical size upon the map. But
you cannot use it for a road map to direct you to the home of a friend,
because the details of such a trip are much too fine. So we use it for
large-scale mapping, but could not possibly use it for the delicate
business of course mapping."

"But if you enlarged a section?"

Gant Nerley nodded. "It has been tried. No good. You see, Dusty, this
was made by going deep into space and making stereograms from all
angles. The transparencies are used in projectors all around the hall.
But as you may know, the finest photogram loses definition when it is
enlarged too much. As for delicate operations, Dusty, just to prove our
point we are going to enter the model."

Gant led them to a control panel in the railing and from a sheet of
paper in his hand he set the dials.