Of course Dusty had expected there would be quite a difference between
his handling of Marandanian spacecraft and the professional. But he did
not realize how great this difference was. In a larger ship than Scyth
Radnor's, spearheading a conical flight of twelve more ships, he rode
behind the pilot and admired the smoothness of the man's operation.

The color of the plate was high in the blue-violet and the stars leaped
out of their background to whip past with hardly a flick. Beacons
fairly buzzed and they grew into flaming balls and were gone behind as
the pilot moved the 'Tee' bar with a deft motion of one hand and used
the other hand to flick back and forth across the controls, changing
the viewpanel co-ordinates and adjusting the various factors for
flight. He skirted gas fields dangerously close and zipped between the
cluster by the double zigzag with a swaying motion, then humped the
spacer down tight and made a dead run for it.

And behind him in a cone came the rest, in tight formation, conically
arranged below the leader in tiers, three, four, five.

They soared around another beacon, its flashing fire bright blue
and the coronal glow reaching out for them, and then the pilot was
calling out numbers and a man at the computer was punching keys. On
the viewpanel before them lay another beacon, winking ... winking ...
winking.

Behind them, a continuous tape was running through the recording
machine, playing its words on the phanoband communication channels:
"Calling Transgalactic. Government Priority and Emergency! Calling
Transgalactic! You are to disable your barytrine generator, you are to
discontinue all operations at once! By Order of the Bureau Of Galactic
Affairs!"

A man sat tense in his chair peering at a greenish screen that had a
halo-spot in the middle. The halo was growing larger, but so slow as to
be almost steady. The man held a micrometer thimble between his thumb
and forefinger and was turning it slowly, keeping a pair of dark lines
tangent to the bright edge of the halo. From time to time he would call
out a figure which another man would pluck out on a keyboard.

"Why don't they answer?" breathed Barbara.

Gant smiled sourly. "Because they are going to go through with it if
they can."

"But--?"

"They have every legal right to maintain communication silence, even
though at the present time there is small point in maintaining secrecy
about this rift. Their legal position is one of fair safety; one cannot
be convicted of disobeying orders that one does not hear."

Dusty eyed Gant angrily. "You mean to say they can't hear that signal?"

"Of course they hear it. But can you prove that they hear it?"

"On Terra we have a maxim that ignorance of the law is no defense. This
is to keep people from shooting people and then claiming that they
didn't know that shooting people was forbidden by law."

"Very sensible. We have the same laws and the same interpretation,"
smiled Gant. "But in this case we have a different situation. As of
the last acknowledged contact with Transgalactic, and specifically
that part which is dealing with Sol and Terra, they had every right to
proceed. The law has been changed. Now it is up to the law to see that
the change in law has been properly delivered to the interested parties
and that the change is acknowledged. Follow?"

Dusty nodded. "_Ex post facto_ sort of thing. If you pass a law
forbidding neckties on Tuesday, you cannot arrest a man for having
appeared on Monday without one."

"Right."

"But this is already Tuesday."

"But to be effective, newly-passed laws must be properly posted.
Then must be acknowledged from the farthest point in space. And
Transgalactic is playing communication-silence."

Dusty grunted angrily. "And that was the character that yelped about
our vengeful nature? Isn't he guilty of the same?"

Gant Nerley nodded. "Of course! Aren't we all of the same cut of human?"

The phanoband signal went on:

"Calling Transgalactic! Discontinue all operations by Order of--" and
so forth.

The squawk box on the wall said, "Calling Gant Nerley with report."

"Report!"

"Report slight increase in phanoradiation high in the subnuclear
region. Cross semi-collateral traces indicating an increase in
lower-level nuclear activity."

The squawk box clicked off and Dusty looked with puzzlement at Gant
Nerley. "What was all that?" he pleaded.

"He means that Transgalactic is hard at work. The lower level of
nuclear reactions has increased in intensity, meaning in simple
prediction that the business of making a variable star out of Sol is
under way."

The Marandanian with the filar micrometer on the barytrine detector
grumbled. "It's going to be a bit rough."

"Why?" asked the pilot. "If it weren't for that barytrine we'd never
find Sol out of that mess dead ahead. We'd be canvassing the stellar
region around there for weeks if we didn't have a focal point--"

"I know," grunted the detector operator. "First you need a barytrine
field large enough to make a homing run on, but then once you're home
you'll want a tiny one so you can locate the generator precisely. Well,
you can't have 'em both, Jann."

Jann Wilkor shook his head. "I wish I'd made this run before. I could
make it faster."

Gant pointed at the screen and nudged Dusty. The color-scale was still
high in the blue-violet and there were a couple of places on the
viewpanel that were a dead black, tiny spots that did not move as Jann
Wilkor's delicate touch corrected the course. Spots burned out of the
substance of the panel like over-exposed film burned through.

"It takes a master pilot to make a run this fast. Even so, we're taking
a rather high risk. But if the channel was free and open from Marandis
to Spiral Cluster, with only a big phanobeacon at either end, we could
make it with the screen burning black-violet. We may even have to
develop a new supraradiant material for ultra-high velocities."

"How fast can you go?"

Jann Wilkor soared around a beacon and centered on the next before
the flicking wave of heat was gone. He did it easily and with the
negligent reflex of the master pilot. "Fitt Mazorn took one of the
high speed jobs into intergalactic space for a speed run a year ago
and claims to have made it from Laranonne to Ultimane in slightly less
than an hour. Or," corrected the pilot, "an equivalent distance, out in
deep-deep space. Some of this is probably guff; I doubt that he could
do it. That's a hundred thousand light-years per hour and just a bit
fantastic. Trouble is that the phanobands propagate at a finite speed,
according to Hahn Tratter, and therefore the true velocity is difficult
to check, since no one has been able to measure phanoband velocity."

"At any rate, it's fast," said Dusty, who did not understand half of
what the pilot said.

Gant nodded. "It's fast. It's what we'll be doing in your clear
channels, Dusty. That will make you rich and famous, that idea of
yours."

"Iffing and providing we can get there in time."

"No matter. If Terra is lost to you, you'll still--"

"Look," said Dusty, "if that bunch wins out, I'll--"

"And I won't blame you," replied Gant.

There came a double report. The man on the barytrine detector said,
"Barytrine field just went into the second phase," at the same time
that the pilot said, "Last lap!" and turned his point of aim around the
beacon to center the hairs on a small star that did not wink.

"Our next problem is to scour Terra inch by inch to find their
barytrine generator," said Gant worriedly.

Dusty groaned. He thought of the trackless wastes of the planet; the
Upper Amazon jungles, the tundra of Alaska and Siberia, the hidden
reaches of Africa, high Tibet, and for that matter the cornfields of
Iowa and the wheat fields of Saskatchewan. The fathomless, staggering
area of the sea bottoms was too vast a hopeless search-problem to
contemplate.