Here the driver phlegmatically put the aircab into a tight corkscrew
that dropped them onto the roof. Dusty got out slowly, testing the
stiffness of his knees after the ride. He helped Barbara out next and
the nurse came out on the other side at the same time.

Then they were almost roofed as the aircab took off on a flat,
screaming '_U_' turn that lofted him no more than ten feet, whipped
across the street between levels and swooped him down on the opposite
side, where he hit the other roof without a bounce and came to a fast
braking stop beside a man who had flagged him.

The man got in and the aircab whiffled off the roof in a crazy climbing
turn and burrowed into the fast traffic lane above. It forced its way
into the mass of traffic and was lost in a matter of seconds.

"Holy Rockets!"

Barbara wiped her damp forehead with the back of a shaking hand.
"Oh--for a film of this!"

Dusty grinned weakly. "Shucks, Barb. What's a fender for if you don't
fend with it?"

Quietly their nurse turned from the spectacle and led them to a roof
kiosk and down some steps into an elevator....

The operator cut the ropes and let them drop slightly slower than the
free-fall constant of the planet Marandis, leaving their stomachs
somewhere up on the hundred and ninety-first floor. He braked the
elevator somewhere down below-below-below, and their innards caught up
with them in such a sudden rush it buckled their knees.

Along a magnificent corridor and through massive carved doors opened
for them by men in uniform, and then they were ushered into a vast
ornamented room with a vaulted ceiling, tapestried walls, and a
polished floor. Deep armchairs were waiting around a huge table that
glistened with polished metal and blinding white cloth, the severity
broken by color of dish and fruit and fluid. Soft stringed music filled
the air that was also lightly scented.

As they entered, the music bridged from the stringed fugue to a
magnificent orchestration and the scent changed subtly from languid
sweetness to a pungent aroma that compelled the senses to pleasant
attention. The soft-key lighting swirled across the vaulted ceiling and
changed into a colored brilliance that made the blood leap high.

The music slid into a soft passage and a vibrant voice announced:

"Dusty Britton, Commander in Chief of The Junior Division of The Terran
Space Patrol. Barbara Crandall, Thespian and Vocal Musician of Terra.
In attendance, Lela Brandis, Mistress of Extra-Marandanian Medicine."

The music crashed, the scent came heavy and sharp, and the lights
flashed like the licking of summer lightning and came to rest outlining
them brilliantly.

Gant Nerley crossed the huge room and held out his hand to Dusty
Britton.

"We need no introduction, Dusty Britton," he said in a ringing tone. "I
say 'Greeting' to you with all my heart!"

Another stab of music, a touch of cinnamon-scent, and a play of lights.

Gant Nerley turned. "Stop the dramatics," he commanded. "What are we,
children to be impressed by theatrical tricks?"

The music shifted back to the string ensemble, the scent smoothed out
to something pleasant and pungent, and the lights faded back to their
neutral medium-key. Dusty thought that if this lights-and-music stuff
was strictly off the cuff, ad-lib, someone was a past master at the art
of extemporaneous composition. He liked it. And if it took Marandanian
children to appreciate it, you could give him ten years in school and
call him the Marandanian child.

Gant Nerley was holding out an elbow to Barbara. She took it and
the Marandanian led her towards the head of the table. Dusty looked
around; then he offered his own elbow to the nurse--Mistress of
Extra-Marandanian Medicine, Lela Brandis.

It was many years before Dusty identified the things he had for
breakfast. It was exotic and well-prepared; none of it was remotely
familiar but all of it was good.

Then over the after-dinner drinks and smokes, Gant Nerley rose, rapped
the table with his knuckles, and proposed the problem for the day.