Gant looked at Dusty. "It's bad, Dusty. I'll not fool you, but it's
bad. We have perhaps a day or two, perhaps three. We're late. By the
time we arrive, the phase-two growth will be heavy enough to cause
leakage-reaction in our detector and render the detector completely
ambiguous."

"Meaning what?"

"What I said. That we must scour Terra inch by inch. And here is where
you must help."

"Me?"

"Yes. You must issue orders to your Space Patrol to comb the landscape.
You must find that barytrine generator."

Dusty looked at Gant Nerley blankly. "You realize what you're asking?
That within a matter of hours we must set up a land-scouring search
and completely cover the entire earth? I haven't even got the foggiest
notion of how many million square miles of earth there are, let alone
the ocean-bottom which we couldn't even touch, lacking the equipment."

"They wouldn't plant it on a sea bottom."

"No? Look, Gant, remember that they're planning on keeping this thing
running for a thousand years. They'll have to hide it good."

Gant shook his head with a wan smile. "Not at all. You forget that so
far as anybody within the barytrine field is likely to see it, the
total time will be from right now until the field goes on in a few
hours. Then the enclosure-time will elapse instantaneously for those
within. Anybody who finds it once the job goes on will find it after
you have been freed of the field. The chances are high that they've
dropped it in some comfortable climate, possibly near a large city,
just as Scyth Radnor did."

Dusty eyed Gant sourly. "For the same purpose?" he asked.

"Probably. After all, Dusty--" Gant let the statement hang, suggesting
silently that Dusty was the kind of human who would think of the same
thing and act on it. "So you must issue orders to your Patrol--"

Dusty grunted. His Patrol? Discredited, his position shot to bits, his
public appeal running somewhere near absolute zero, who would even
listen to him? His former admirers had shucked their Space Patrol
clothing for the costume of Jack Vandal, Space Rover.

Then he sat up with a puzzled smile.

"You have an idea?"

"I hope so."

"And--?"

Dusty smiled wistfully. "From the time Scyth Radnor opened his
spacelock and blasted off the end of my antenna, I've been running a
losing battle," he said. "I've been playing a game far over my head;
outpointed, overbid, overdrawn and sinking. About the only reason I'm
still here fighting is that some of the rules of this cockeyed game
seem to fall into my own act. Yes, dammit, I've got an idea. Can I call
the orders, Gant?"

"Take over, Dusty."

Dusty turned to the pilot. "When we get there," he said, "Circle the
planet several times as fast and as low as you can. Create a stir.
Radiate like mad, anything you can radiate. Call attention to us in a
bold fashion and show 'em that what we've got is big, important and
powerful." Then to Gant Nerley he put the question, "You wouldn't have
anything as primitive as a radio set aboard, would you?"

"You mean a radiomagnetic communication device? Well, not for
communications but we do have a small receiver for detecting the
lower-radiation stars and one for scanning planetary systems for
primitive cultures. What did you have in mind?"

Dusty looked Gant in the eye. "I want to broadcast orders to my Patrol."

"Oh. An excellent idea. We'll save time that way. The scanner-type
radiomagnetic wave equipment is two-way and connected to a menslator
for contacting primitive peoples, you know, and--"

"Get it fired up," said Dusty shortly. "Full power."