Dusty grinned, perhaps for the first time in weeks. "Look," he said.
"I know the patter well enough. Doc Smith invented the Bergenholm and
Murray Leinster came along with the superdrive and George O. Smith
developed the matter transmitter to a fare-thee-well, but all this guff
is so much birdfood."

"What are you getting at, Dusty?"

"I wish I had studied a bit more science," said Dusty plaintively. "But
dammit, I don't know a microfarad from a polysyllabic neutron. But
I'm telling you that my so-called strange fancy is the God's Truth.
Some time in the next couple of weeks the Earth is going to get itself
transplanted. You can either help me now or you can come back later and
tell me that you're damned sorry you tossed me out. Take it or leave
it."

"All right. So maybe I'll take it. I've only a couple of weeks to lose.
What do you want me to say?"

"Look, Doc, supposing that you were convinced that interstellar travel
is possible; that these phanobands do exist. That this menslator
is a commercial instrument. And so on. Take the first premise:
faster-than-light travel is a commercial fact due to the development of
a theory called the machinus theory of space-time. Can you do a bit of
hypothetical theorization?"

"Sure thing. I don't mind. We'll take this on the basis of plenic
syllogistics. Our first premise will be that this menslator works as
your pal Scyth claims."

"It's Scyth. Not scythe."

"Then as I put it, the menslator produces the mental image that Scyth
intends. He will say, for instance: 'A gostak distims the doshes,' and
because he means that a professional preparer of comestibles has placed
an unstated number of crustaceans under an open flame, you receive this
statement of Scyth as: 'The cook broiled some lobsters.' Is that clear?"

"I can follow you," said Dusty. "This much Scyth explained."

"Good. Now let's look at our commonly accepted definition of
'Mechanus'. This means that it works. In other words we have him
telling us that their culture has developed a 'workable theory of
space-time' which has been taken up after the theory of general
relativity displayed a number of gaping holes. So their 'mechanus
theory of space-time' is a workable theory."

"And where does this lead us?" asked Dusty.

"Right back into a circle," said Dr. Ross thoughtfully. "Because if
they've developed interstellar travel due to considerations brought
about by the mechanus theory, that means that they have proved their
theory by practise."

Dusty grunted half-humorously. "Isn't this like saying that mud is
sticky because it's gooey? Or that winter is cold because of a lack of
heat?"

Ross nodded. "Or that things fall because of the law of gravity."

"But aren't all these things a case of defining 'A' in terms of 'A'?"

"What isn't?" demanded Dr. Ross. "You're not looking for the Universal
Truth, are you?"

"No, but--"

"Look, Dusty, the reason that we can afford to accept the fact that one
and one adds up to two is simply due to the fact that one and one adds
up to two in a great majority of cases."

"Wait a minute, Doc. One and one is always two."

"Not when you add a quart of alcohol to a quart of water. One and one
here adds up to about one point eight."

Dusty waved a hand. "That's different."

"Not by a long shot, Dusty. There are extenuating circumstances. But
this is just a proof of the fact that one and one is not always two."

"All right. But where does this leave us?"

"In the same damned circle. Granting that your observations are
correct, proper, and unwarped by the addition of bourbon, Scyth and his
galactic civilization have developed faster-than-light travel which
has resulted in the establishment of a galactic government. But the
explanation of how it is done cannot be derived from the nomenclature
of the theory. Frankly, I have not the faintest idea of how to go about
unravelling the word 'phanoband' unless we take it apart from its
roots. Let's see, now."