Dusty awoke to find the sunshine streaming in through a small porthole
and lighting the cabin cheerfully. The smell of fresh air was in his
lungs, a pungent, pleasant smell faintly of cinnamon or nutmeg but
not quite either. He recalled that he had folded out on the divan in
the salon, now he was in one of the cabins below the salon level. He
wondered how he had arrived.

He stretched his muscles, the cool sheets felt pleasant against his
back. Then he wondered who had undressed him and how anybody had been
gentle enough to do the job without waking him. He looked around the
cabin expectantly and as he looked, his door opened and a woman came in.

She was wearing white from cap to slippers and Dusty pegged her for a
nurse at once. She was wholesome enough, but neither her face nor her
figure would have stopped any traffic on Fifth Avenue. She carried a
book with a finger slipped between pages to mark her place and in
her other hand she held the Marandanian equivalent of a cigarette. A
pleasant curl of smoke rose from the lighted end.

"Hello," she offered brightly. "And how do we feel this morning?"

"We feel fine," grunted Dusty. "And we'll feel better after a shower, a
shave, and some of that smoke you're using. I'd also enjoy a change of
clothing."

"We took the liberty of having your uniform cleaned. The shower and
shaving gear is in the bath--there--and as for the cigarette, I can
offer you one right now."

"Give," said Dusty with a grin. She handed him a case and snapped a
lighter for him. He puffed and found that the stuff, while far from
tobacco, was tasty enough. He took a deep puff and let the smoke filter
out through his nose.

The nurse said, "I hope you don't resent sleeping in the--ah--"

"The raw? I do it all the time." Dusty took another puff and swung his
feet overboard onto the deck. It was not deliberate, Dusty was just
uninhibited and the question of wandering across a cabin dressed in
nothing did not even occur to him. The nurse said, "I'll be waiting for
you in the salon." She left, not precipitately, but with a certain air
that removed all embarrassment.

Dusty showered and shaved and dressed in his cleaned uniform. When he
got to the salon, Barbara was there already, also freshened and cleaned.

"So this," she said, "is Marandis."

The nurse nodded cheerfully. "This is Marandis. You'll have to tell me
how your Terra is; I've never been anywhere near that far from home,
you know."

"Sure," nodded Dusty. "But now that we're on Marandis, what do we do
next?"

"Oh. I'm to escort you to a formal meeting of the Bureau where you'll
meet Gant Nerley face to face."

"How's Scyth Radnor?"

"Why, he's doing very well. He's hospitalized and he'll be out and
howling for the skin of the man that shot him in about a week."

"He'd better take a month off for practise, first," grinned Dusty.

"Or," chuckled the nurse, "leave other men's women alone."

"Yes," agreed Barbara.