Dusty nodded soberly. "I won't. The first time I thought we could
convince 'em. But not any more, kid. One of us in the mud is enough.
We've got to find a new attack."

Barbara handed Dusty a highball which he sipped before he said,
"Barbara, we've got to do something."

"Why?"

He looked at her, stunned. "Why?" he cried.

Barbara took a sip of her own highball. "We won't lose a damned thing
and you know it," she said quietly.

"A thousand years--"

"So what?" she asked simply. "Supposing that they were a bit more
accurate than Scyth predicted. Suppose that they took this thousand
years out of our life at a time when you weren't looking at the sun. Do
you realize--" Barbara's voice lowered a bit dramatically, "--or have
you been watching the night sky to see whether they have already?"

"I have," he admitted with rising excitement.

"All right," she replied complacently. "Then you surely must realize
that this thousand years out of your life isn't going to change the
stock market a point, or anything else."

Dusty nodded. "This I can realize. But do you think I like losing
everything but my other shirt? Do you realize that as of this moment
I've got only a couple of thousand bucks tucked away and about as much
prospect of landing another job as a dead fly?"

"You're not really worried, are you, Dusty?"

"Why shouldn't I be?"

"Because as soon as this barytrine field goes on and off and we find
ourselves around another sun, in another sky, you'll be corroborated."

He looked at her. "Of course--and I've kept my big trap shut, too."

"You've what?"

"You don't think I'd be nuts enough to go around telling people 'Well,
if you don't believe me, just wait until next month!' do you?"

"Why not?"

"Because then they'd have carefully kept me on ice until after the big
event."

"After which your story would be corroborated and you'd--"

"I'd have nothing," said Dusty sharply. "It's not good enough. Sure,
I'd be corroborated, but then I'd be blamed for not being effectual
enough to convince people in the first place. I'd be blamed for not
being the guy I've been depicting on the stage. I've been Dusty
Britton, The Great Hero. But when it comes down to really doing
something, I'm Dusty Britton, Liar First Class. Next it is going to be
Dusty Britton, Helpless Incompetent. I can't just fold my hands and
tell 'em that they can wait and see, and then yelp 'I told you so!'
because if there's anything that people hate it's 'I told you so!'
characters."

Barbara Crandall looked at Dusty pityingly. "Dusty," she asked softly,
"Just what do you hope to accomplish?"

"I hope I'll be able to--"

"No. I know what you want to do. But what I want to know is how."

"There must be some way--" his voice trailed off.

"I can't see it. Scyth has probably gone to Marandis to get his
generator. Dusty, do you know where the hell is Marandis?"

"Somewhere towards the galactic center."

"I'm told that the galaxy is a hell of a big place. You've about as
much chance of getting there as you have of swimming the Pacific Ocean
with one arm tied behind you. Scyth is gone from here so far that it
takes light thousands of years to get that far. Hell, Dusty, at this
moment, the best resources of all the science of the Earth and the
so-called planetary income couldn't move a housebrick from here to
Venus in less than a matter of months. Alpha Centauri is actually no
more than a dreamer's symbol so far as we're concerned. In fact, you
and I know that Scyth's little friends are somewhere on the dark side
of Mercury getting ready to make Sol a variable. We couldn't get there
for months and months, and then we'd have a hell of a time locating
them, even if we had whatever it might take to get there."