The guard at the front gate looked at Dusty with suspicion. Dusty
looked back defiantly; for a number of years the guard had practically
bowed thrice as Dusty approached, Dusty hoped that the habit of
deference was well established.

"Have you a pass, Mr. Britton?"

"Now see here, Sam, I don't need a pass and--"

"Mr. Britton, I've got orders to--"

"Look Sam. Let's not stall. I want in and I'm going to--"

"One minute, Mr. Britton. I'll have to call."

Dusty grunted. "I want to see Doctor Ross."

"Oh. Well, just a minute."

The guard called, and Dusty could hear the roar of Martin Gramer,
"Throw the louse out!"

"Sorry, Mr. Britton. We can't let you in."

"Look, Sam, I've got trouble. You've got trouble. Do you remember your
younger days, Sam? When you were the top boy at Graphic Arts?"

"Sure do. Great days, too."

"What happened, Sam?"

The smile faded from Sam's face. "I got too old."

"Sam, all I want is to gab with Dr. Ross for a minute or two. I've got
a great idea. And I'll make you a promise, Sam."

"Promise?"

"Sure. I'll promise you that if you let me in right now, and this idea
of mine goes through, that I'll see that you get a good bit in anything
I'm in. We'll work it up from character actor until you're playing
bigger and bigger bits. You can make a comeback, Sam, and I'll help you
then if you help me now. How's about it?"

Sam looked through the studio gates for a moment, and the thinking
could almost be seen in operation. He had darned little to lose; he
could always blame Dusty's entrance on some dreamed-up excuse, and if
Dusty's idea worked, he might even be able to take credit for having
used some initiative.

"It's a deal, Mr. Britton. But don't forget me."

"I won't."

Dusty went inside, found the main idea-office, and talked himself into
the office of Dr. Ross. These hurdles he found less difficult than the
front gate; possibly due to the fact that once a man was inside the
fence, everyone thought he belonged there.

Doctor Harold Ross greeted Dusty with surprise.

"Dusty! How goes it?"

"Not good. I'm a professional louse."

"How come?"

"Don't you read? Forget it. Look, Doc, you're actually the only
scientist I know, so I want to ask a couple of questions."

"I'll try. But let's not lose sight of the fact that I'm not a credited
scientist, as you put it. I'm a sort of cockeyed physicist whose job is
to see that actors squinting through telescopes see Saturn at the right
angle, and that birds looking through spectroscopes don't point at a
blue triplet and call it the Sodium D Lines."

"You might be even better than a real physicist of the research kind,"
said Dusty.

"Thanks for them kind words, Dusty. Flattery will get you nowhere."

"I'm not trying flattery. You've been in this make-believe business for
a long time. That's why you might be able to think it out."

"Go on, man. Spill your idea. What do you want me to do?"

"Let's assume that Dusty Britton's wild tale about a man named Scyth
Radnor, from Marandis, is right. And that this guy came out of a
spacecraft parked in the ocean, sitting on the sill of the spacelock
waiting for me. He talked about the death of the general relativity
theory in favor of something called the machinus theory of space-time,
phanobands, menslators and all sorts of things."

"Yeah? We've been having space warps ever since the days of Jack
Williamson."