The snick of a key in the lock did not break through their
preoccupation with one another, but the cynical voice of Dusty Britton
came as the shock of a bucket of cold water:

"Very pleasant scene," he drawled. "I hope I've interrupted something."

Scyth and Barbara parted in a whirl.

Scyth felt a sinking sensation in his middle as he realized that the
facts were far too clear; that the sensible course was a hasty retreat,
but the only path was barred by Dusty Britton.

Barbara took the woman's course. "Don't you ever use the doorbell?" she
asked icily.

Dusty smiled sourly. "I always have," he said. "Up to now. But this
time I want words with the gentleman in question instead of losing him
out through the back door."

"I think I should explain," said Scyth uncertainly.

Dusty chuckled. "What sort of explanation do you think I'll accept?" he
asked the Marandanian.

"But I--"

"Stow it, Scyth. You couldn't explain a thing and you know it."

Barbara snorted angrily. "See here, Dusty, you can't come in here and
start--"

"I'm not starting anything. I'm just seeking a conference with Scyth."

"How did you know?" asked the Marandanian uncertainly.

"By being just smart enough to find a tomcat by knowing where the
tomcat is likely to prowl."

"Meaning?" demanded Barbara icily.

Dusty ignored her. To Scyth he said, "I don't know beans about
barytrine fields or generators, but I guessed that you'd set it up on
earth somewhere, start it cooking, and wetnurse it until it came to a
boil. That would leave you on Earth with time to kill. Since time hangs
heavy, you'd probably look up one of the only two people you know. The
more attractive one, Scyth. So I've been haunting the front door like a
private eye."

Barbara coughed. "You took that right out of The Space Patrol Fights
The Overlords of Delgon."

"So I've got good writers," grinned Dusty.

"What do you intend to do?" asked Scyth nervously.

Dusty faced Scyth. Dusty topped the Marandanian by perhaps an inch or
two and covered him by a good twenty pounds. He guessed that if it came
to roughhouse he would probably win. He poised himself on the balls of
his feet, just in case. He had no way of guessing the speed or power of
the wiry-looking Scyth Radnor and so he was taking no chances.

"I became a professional bum because of you and your phanobands and
your menslators and your barytrine fields," he said bluntly. "I was
laughed out of everything I had. So now you're going to go with me and
tell 'em all that I was right. We'll have the big domes out to take a
look at your spacecraft, have 'em inspect your barytrine doodad, take a
gander at whatever it is you call phanobands, and so on."

Scyth understood all too well. He was trapped, faced by a man who could
take him apart bit by bit without much trouble, and if he came out of
it alive, he would end up by being a bigger bum than Dusty Britton had
become. Scyth had fumbled badly by taking time off for fun and games
with Barbara and he knew it. The only thing to do was to clear out of
here no matter what happened afterwards. For once the barytrine field
snapped on, any evidence of Scyth Radnor's attempt at dalliance could
not come to light for a thousand years.

His hand lifted slowly to the inside pocket of his jacket as he said,
"I'll be glad to help you, Dusty. Naturally, none of us have any notion
of making things tough for anybody. So--"

Scyth went into whirlwind motion. His hand came out from inside the
coat carrying a fluted-barrelled weapon. As the end of the thing
cleared the lapel of Scyth's jacket he was fingering the trigger and a
pale emanence seared out and cut down and over in a slashing arc.