XXVIII.


Annie passed the night at Kirby Park; and, when she and Harry were
sitting at breakfast the next morning, he told her he should come and
see her act that night.

“Then will you come up to town with me?” she asked eagerly.

Her husband hesitated.

“I don’t know whether I can, Annie. I have some things to see to down
here before I start, and something to do in town when I get up there,
so that I cannot be at your rooms till about four.”

Her face clouded.

“Something to do in town!” she echoed, watching him narrowly, and
noting the expression into which his face had set during the last few
minutes. “Is it--to see some one, Harry?” she asked timidly.

“Yes, a business appointment.”

“Oh, Harry, it is to see Stephen, I know! What are you going to do?
What are you going to say? You look as if you would kill him!”

“Don’t be afraid. How could I condescend to touch the little misshapen
wretch, who has not as much strength in his whole body as I have in one
finger? But I am going to see him, and to-day.”

She saw that it was impossible to alter her husband’s resolutions, so
she desisted from her persuasions; but there was a terrible fear at
her heart which she could not shake off. She knew the violence of her
husband’s temper, and feared it all the more under this new aspect
of repression. She made up her mind to go to Stephen and warn him of
Harry’s coming, and to beg him not to exasperate her husband further
by any attempt at concealment and false excuses, but to make a frank
confession, such as would, she felt sure, be more likely than anything
else to avert Harry’s anger. Once resolved on this course, she let
the conversation turn to indifferent subjects, and it was not until
breakfast was nearly over that she pretended to remember an appointment
with her dressmaker which would make it necessary for her to go up to
town before luncheon. She did it too naturally to excite in her husband
any suspicions of her good faith, and he went to the station with her,
and parted with her very reluctantly, although he expected to be with
her again in a few hours.

Annie herself felt something more than reluctance; she was seized with
a foreboding of evil.

“Ah, Harry,” she said, laying a trembling hand upon his arm, “I wish I
were not married to you!”

“Why?” asked he, startled.

“Because then perhaps you might do what you did long ago, fling all
considerations of business and duty to the winds and jump into the
train with me.”

“Do you think my love was better worth having then than now?” he asked
softly.

“N-o, perhaps not. Still I wish the wife had as much influence as the
girl had.”

If the train had been in the station, she in it, and he at the door,
these words would have carried him off. As it was, standing on the
platform beside her, Harry was seized with a great trembling, and,
walking away from her a few steps, he came back and said to her, low
and reproachfully:

“That is the first time you have ever tempted me to what was not right,
Annie. If the train had been here, your words would have made me jump
in, and, for the first time since I have had work to do, I should have
neglected it--and through you. I have a lot to see to at the stables
this morning, and an appointment to keep with Captain King before I go
up to town. But I can’t resist you; so, if you love me, Annie, and if
you care for what people think of me and say of me, don’t ask me again,
my darling, for I can’t say ‘No’ to you.”

The young wife, self-possessed and independent as she usually was, hung
her head. These words of his, inspiring in her a strong feeling of
respect, did much to restore her confidence in his self-command when
dealing with his treacherous cousin. As she took the rebuke silently,
Harry began to be alarmed at the effect he had produced.

“You are not angry with me, are you, darling? You look as if I had been
scolding you, as if we had changed places.”

“Changed places, Harry!” cried she, looking up in astonishment.

She had already forgotten the long period during which she had looked
upon her husband as a tiresome, unreasonable child.

“Yes, when I was getting well at the Grange you didn’t always treat me
with proper respect, I fancy,” said he, flushing, but looking down into
her eyes rather mischievously.

“Oh, ah--then you were ill!” she said, blushing too.

The last words she said to her husband as the train went off were:

“Remember you are not to be with me later than four. Promise.”

“All right; I promise.”

And, trying to look as if her mind was at ease, Annie gave him a last
smiling “Good-bye,” as the train started.

On arriving in town, she drove straight to the house where Stephen
lodged, and, finding that he was out, she sat down in the sitting-room
to wait for him. Long ere this an explanation of the cripple’s cruel
and deceitful conduct had occurred to her, and it seemed more and more
probable to her, as she sat in the shabby sitting-room, with its low,
weather-stained ceiling and ill-papered walls. Evidently the money
which he had kept back from her he had not spent upon himself; it must
have gone where her jewelry had gone, and Harry’s flowers--to Muriel
West. Annie knew well to what depths of meanness he would descend
in his devotion to a woman, for she remembered with what dogged and
disinterested fidelity he had fulfilled every command, every wish of
his cousin Lilian in the old days at the Grange, before her marriage
with Mr. Falconer. In spite of her contempt for a man who could stoop
to such acts, Annie was touched by the cripple’s hapless attachment,
and a great pity filled her heart as she heard the slow thud, thud of
his crutch upon the staircase. Her compassion deepened when the door
opened and Stephen stood before her, wild-eyed and pale with a pallor
which was like that of death. She sat quite still for an instant,
unable to speak, unable to express what she felt at the dreadful change
in his appearance.

But when she rose very softly and held out a hand to him, she
discovered, to her horror, that he still stared blankly in front of
him, making no sign. He did not see her.

“Stephen,” said she, in a low voice.

He started, and for the first time knew that he was not alone.

“Annie!” he said apathetically. “It is you, is it?”

With mechanical courtesy, he moved forward feebly and offered her a
chair; but she took his hand and led him very gently to the hard little
sofa, and made him sit down beside her there. She thought the feeling
which had evidently overmastered him must be remorse for his conduct
toward her and her husband, and she tried to think of the sweetest
words she could to soothe his distress.

“It makes me very unhappy to see how deeply you are suffering,” said
she. “If I had known you would feel it so much, I would have come
before.”

He played idly with his crutch, not in the least moved by her words.

“It would have made no difference,” said he, in a dull, cold tone.

“Oh, but I think it would! I would not have let you think so much about
it!”

“How could you help that?” said he, turning upon her his lusterless
eyes. “I tell you I was not rich enough, and she would have thrown me
over just the same!”

Annie started. He was thinking no more of the wrong he had done her
than if it had been a deed of a hundred years back. But she was not
angry. Her pity rose higher than ever for this unhappy man, who had
sacrificed all, even to his honesty, for the sake of a woman who did
not care a straw for him now that she had got from him all he had to
give.

“Stephen, I am so very, very sorry for you,” said she, in a quivering
voice.

“Are you?” said he, waking for an instant into something more like
life. “And yet--you have no reason to be.”

A feeling of shame seemed for the first time to come over him as he
realized whose sympathy it was that was offered him; and he drew his
hand away from hers.

“Every one has reason to be sorry for any one else who is unhappy,”
said she. “And when you see that even I can feel sympathy with you, you
will see that you have friends who are worth living for yet.”

“Not I, not I,” murmured he, in a broken voice. “There is nothing left
for me. She had promised to marry me--she is not a lady by birth, you
know, and I could have made her one by position. I would have worked
for her--I have worked for her--I have done more. But I used up all I
had too fast--she saw I had no more; she said, if she married me, we
should starve. And she looked at me quite coldly with her beautiful
eyes, and said she was not well-educated enough to marry a gentleman--a
gentleman! I, a poor cripple! It was that--it is always that! There is
no happiness, no love for me; nothing but pity--wretched, miserable,
scornful pity, that stings me more than taunts, more than hatred. She
pitied me, I dare say, and laughed at me, and let me go;” and he broke
down into incoherent words and sobbing.

Annie tried bright words of encouragement, asked him if he thought
nothing of her friendship, of that of the rest of his family; but she
spoke to deaf ears. When at length she rose to go, he gave her his hand
and said, but still coldly:

“Thank you. I shall be glad presently that you came. It was good of you
to come--generous--and I thank you. If I had a long life before me, I
would try to do you some service; but I am played out now, and there is
not much of my life left to run. Good-bye, Annie.”

She could not stay. His last words were almost a command to go. She
had not mentioned her husband’s name. She thought that, in the state
of mind in which she was leaving the cripple, the dread of an angry
visitor might make him desperate; and she knew very well that, when
Harry saw the miserable condition to which his sensitive cousin was
reduced, he was no more likely to be unmerciful than she had been.

But she could not shake off a foreboding that the meeting between the
cousins would be productive of evil, and she reached home anxious and
thoughtful.

Her misgivings were not without foundation.

Within an hour of her departure from Stephen’s lodging, Harry drove up
in a hansom and was directed, as his wife had been, to the little room
on the top floor. He entered with a very stern face and firm tread; but
the sight of the cripple, lying half on the sofa, half on a chair, in a
state of utter prostration of body and mind, made him pause. The other
looked up at him without fear, without feeling of any kind.

“Do you know me?” asked Harry, abruptly.

“Yes; what do you want here?”

“I want an explanation. If you do not feel fit to give it to me now, I
will come again. But I must have it, and the less delay the better.”

“Ask your wife, then. She has a better head than you, and understands
without so much talking. Go to her for your explanations, and leave me
in peace.”

“Not yet. I want some reason for your stopping my letters to her and
her letters to me, for taking the presents we intrusted to your care to
be given to each other, and for giving her money, my flowers, and even
her jewelry to a greedy, extravagant, worthless woman whom you couldn’t
satisfy if you had gold mines to give her. That is what I want you to
answer.”

The cripple had raised himself, his eyes glittering with fury, and he
sat frowning maliciously at his cousin until the latter had finished
his speech.

“Then I won’t answer you, except to say this; you are very good now,
and look upon extravagance and waste as very wicked things. But you
haven’t been a saint so very long that you can have forgotten that you
yourself were as greedy and worthless as any one I knew once, and that
you forged your father’s name to supply your own extravagance, which,
it seems to me, is worse than to stoop to meanness for the sake of a
woman you love and for whom you would die.”

The last words he spoke in a low voice, looking straight in front of
him with his glittering, feverish eyes; and his hand moved restlessly
toward his coat-pocket as he finished speaking.

“Look here!” said Harry, in a softer voice. “I don’t want to be hard on
you. I know I’ve done as bad things myself, if not worse; and, if I’m a
saint now, it’s the first I’ve heard of it. But, if you’re so fond of
this woman as you say, I wonder how you could have the heart to play
such confoundedly nasty tricks with the love of another man, and to
such an angel as Annie, who had always been kind to you too?”

“Your love? Your love was nothing to mine!” Stephen burst out,
contemptuously. “A woman may have a place in your heart; but your dogs
and your horses fill the rest of it. You are handsome, straight; if
one woman will not smile on you, another will; while I, who love sweet
eyes and fair faces with a passion you cannot dream of, can only buy
kindness from a woman by the ceaseless labor of ministering to all her
wants, all her caprices; and then, when at last the time comes when I
can give no more, I am cast aside and forgotten for--for one of your
sort, with a pair of blue eyes that say nothing, and a head that can’t
put two ideas together.”

The passionate bitterness of this speech moved Harry.

“It--it is rough on a fellow,” he murmured, in a low, gruff voice.

But the pity in his tone woke the wretched man before him to frenzy.

“You can spare me your pity,” said he, fiercely. “All our lives through
you have got easily what I might work myself to death for, and never
get, after all. You always got enjoyment, admiration, love; and, now
you have sobered down, you get respect, success, money. If you had been
in my place, Muriel would never have thrown you over. She had seen
you only once, at a supper-party, months ago, at Beckham. Yet, when I
met her in London, she remembered your stupid, red face, and sent you
messages which I took care not to give you. But I will be even with you
at last; the remedy I prepared for my own wrongs will do as well for
yours.”

And Stephen drew out from his breast, where his hand had been hidden
for some minutes, a revolver, and, aiming before the other had time to
realize his intention, fired it at his cousin.