XI.


The first thing Annie had done on arriving at her London lodging had
been to take off her wedding-ring and hide it away in a corner of her
desk. She had given to the landlady the name “Miss Langton,” which she
had resolved to adopt for the future. These were her first steps toward
cutting herself off from her past life; the next was a bolder one.

During these long weeks when she had lain ill in bed, she had pondered
in her mind how she could live when she had left her husband, as she at
the very beginning of her illness determined to do. One trial of the
life of a governess had been enough for her, and she could not easily
have re-entered it except in some sort under false pretenses. Besides,
now that she had thrown herself upon her own resources, and stood once
more alone in the world, her old ambitions had awakened within her, the
old spirit cried out, the vague but strong consciousness of untried
powers turned her thoughts to a career of art. One form of art alone
seemed open to her--the stage. All that she knew, or almost all that
she knew, of a theatrical life was distasteful to her, and her instinct
would have led her to give herself up to writing. But she had already
tried that, knew how hard it was even to get a hearing from the reading
public, and cast aside the thought of literary distinction as taking
too long to win.

Of course, knowing nothing about the stage, she fell into the common
error of thinking that talent made itself more quickly manifest there,
and utterly ignored the fact that it is about as easy for a woman of
high principles, without either money or interest, to attain a good
position in a London theater as for a drummer-boy to become a general.
She knew she would have to wait and to work before she found her way to
the front rank; but how long that weary waiting would last, or how dull
that work would be, she had not the least idea. She had unbounded faith
in herself, she had energy, a little patience, and she believed herself
to have talent, and her heart beat fast with the thought that she was
now free to measure her strength against the world.

As for the horror of her husband and the rest of the Braithwaites, if
they ever came to hear of the step she had taken, why, she did not care
for their opinion, and their disgust could not humiliate her. Besides,
the fact of her having become an actress would effectually cut her off
from them forever and prevent their trying to bring her back to them, a
possibility too dreadful to be considered calmly.

For, now that they were over, yet still fresh in her mind, the trials
she had suffered during those few months of married life seemed, in
these first days of relief from them, even greater than they had really
been. Harry seemed more brutal, more ignorant, more dissipated, Lady
Braithwaite and Lilian more coldly insolent, George more selfish,
Wilfred more drunken, Stephen more unkind; so that the stage held out
attractions for her in the social oblivion it involved which it would
have been far from having in her eyes in other circumstances.

Not once did the thought occur to Annie that she was doing wrong in
thus leaving her husband without consulting him. From the first she
had been too obviously his superior in judgment to set any value on
his opinion, and now she only thought she was ridding him as well as
herself of an intolerable burden in the simplest manner. She had tried
hard to do her duty as a wife, and had succeeded only in exasperating
him against her and in unwittingly irritating him to more than his
customary excesses. In leaving him free she thought she was rendering
him the highest service in her power; and in freeing herself she felt,
with a throb of joy, that she was once more able to indulge in her old
dreams of ambition and success.

But in this argument with herself she forgot one thing--namely, that
she had not left Harry free. This forgetfulness was the natural result
of the effacement she had suffered at Garstone Grange which had caused
her to depreciate her duties as they had depreciated her rights. It did
not occur to her to think that she, morally the stronger of the two,
was abandoning her husband, in all the first heat of a singularly wild
and passionate nature, to a life in which the innocent indulgence of
the affections was no longer possible; for she looked upon him as a
brute incapable of any but the lowest forms of love. As for herself,
she did not think herself in danger--she was of cooler temperament and
higher intellect; her imagination took fire much more readily than her
heart; she had thrown herself into the prospect of a brilliant career,
and the idea of leading a loveless life had few terrors for her at
first, except in rare moments of depression.

But, though the future was full of charm for her, the present was not
without great difficulties. How was she to enter upon her new life? She
remembered that some years ago, in the old days when her father was
alive, when she was still a school girl and theatrical matters had the
charm of mystery, she had been with her father on one occasion when he
had met and introduced to her an acquaintance of his who was a manager
and an actor too, and whom she had wondered to find so exceedingly
silent and grave when she remembered how he had made her laugh upon
the stage. She now hit upon the bold measure of writing to him, and
asking if he would see her; but a week passed, and her letter received
no answer. She wrote again to his theater, and this time inclosed a
stamped directed envelope, with an apology for doing so, and an earnest
request for five minutes of his time. She received in reply a hasty
note naming a day and hour when he could see her; and, more excited
than she had ever been in her life before, she arrived at the theater
at the appointed time. She had to wait a long, weary time, very much
ashamed of herself, very much afraid her application would be in vain,
very much wishing herself out of the group of shabby men--whom she
mistook for actors--with whom she was waiting, when at last the manager
came. As his eyes fell on her, she stepped forward, holding his letter
and giving her maiden name.

As she had expected, he had long since forgotten her; but he asked her
to follow him up-stairs, and gave her a courteous hearing at the back
of the dress-circle. After some difficulty, he remembered, or said he
remembered, their former meeting. He strongly advised her not to go on
the stage, telling her that even great talent did not always command
success, that it was a hard life, full of disappointments. Finding her
resolution still firm, and for the sake of her father, with whom he
had at one time been intimate, he agreed to let her make a very modest
first appearance at his theater as a silent “guest.” He did not much
approve of lady amateurs, even in this humble capacity, but the girl
was much in earnest, her pretty pleading was so touching, that he made
this small concession, scarcely doubting that, if she went through all
the rehearsals, after a few nights of a suffocating dressing-room and a
draughty stage, she would appear no more, cured of her unfortunate whim.

The rehearsals were a hard trial, certainly. To stand about for three
or four hours on a dark stage in the company of two or three more
“ladies” who would have been scarcely refined enough for her to engage
as maids, and then sometimes to be dismissed without having to go
through her simple duty of walking across at the back of the scene with
a shabby man who by day filled the position of a bill-sticker, was not
work too exciting to leave time for some unpleasant reflection. When
the piece came out things were a little better. Of the three girls who
dressed with her in a large, bare room which seemed miles away, up at
the top of the theater, two were illiterate but inoffensive, and the
third proved to be one of the merriest little creatures who ever wished
to be a great actress when nature intended her for a good washer-woman.

Going home alone at night frightened her dreadfully, and she never got
quite used to it. Luckily there were omnibuses which took her nearly
the whole way; but the short distance she had to walk before she caught
one was a nightly agony, though nobody ever took any notice of the
insignificant muffled up figure.

The piece was a failure, and did not run long; but she did duty again
in the same humble capacity with the same companions in the comedy
which followed, hoping for an opening to something more dignified and
better calculated to show off her histrionic powers, if she possessed
any. The opening came. It was a very small one, merely the opportunity
of saying one line as a maid-servant; but the minutes before hearing
her own voice for the first time in public were fraught with a terribly
intense excitement which no important part in after-times ever called
up in her with the same strength.

It was a few nights after this ordeal that on returning from the
theater she was seized, for the first time since leaving Garstone, with
a longing to hear what was going on there--how her departure had been
taken, and how William passed his time without her. So she wrote to her
brother-in-law, giving, as the address for him to write to, that of a
stationer whose shop she passed on her way to and from the theater. It
was not that she mistrusted the boy’s word, or even his carefulness;
but she did not wish to get him into trouble, as would certainly have
been the case if any of the rest suspected him of knowing her real
address.

In answer she got the following letter:

 “MY DEAR ANNIE,--I thought you were never going to keep your promise
 and write to me after all, and you haven’t told me much now you do
 write to me. For I want to know ever so much more than you say. You
 need not be afraid of anybody seeing your letter. For when I got it
 at Moss’ I took it straight back and down to the willow-pond. I read
 it, and fastened it under the lining of my hunting-cap. So its all
 rigt. There was a shindy when they new you were gone. George went to
 your aunt and first he scolded mother and Lil and said they ought to
 be ashamed of themselves and your aunt dident know where you were.
 And Harry you should have seen him go on. You would have thought he
 was a good husbend and you a bad wife if you heard him. He had been
 to London and sold his hunting-wach and bougt you a dimand ring which
 I think you would have liked but of course you were write to go away
 and I said so and he punched my head and I punched him back. So he
 dident get much good by his interferring with me. They thought I new
 where you were and I said if they thought I did they migt just try to
 make me say thats all. So they lissened to reason and Harry drinks
 more than ever he is as bad as Wilfred evry bit. And he is allways
 hanging about Green’s forge now. Susan Greens come back a pretty thing
 for a man married like he is now. I only tell you this becos I think
 you ought to know being his wife which is a great pity. They none of
 them know you will never come back except Lil who says you wont and
 that makes George very angry and one evening made Harry cry like a
 great baby insted of trying to find you. The place is beesly now you
 are gone and if I wasent going to uncle Geralds in Ireland I thing I
 should have to come and dig you out.

  “Your afecsionate brother-in-law,

                                       “WILLIAM FITZPATRICK BRAITHWAITE.

 “P.S.--If you could see the black and white rabit now I think you
 would laugh for his legs are alright but so stiff that he hops bout as
 if he was made of wood. Jo bit the pups tail off a fortnight ago.”

This letter made Annie thoughtful. The Rubicon was passed now; she
could not have gone back, even had she wished to do so, with what
they would have considered the contamination of the stage upon her.
But what William said about Harry caused her to ask herself for the
first time whether she had not done him wrong, whether she ought
not still to have stayed and continued coldly to fulfill her wifely
duty to the letter, whether there had not been more selfishness than
self-sacrifice in giving him back his liberty. She felt not one whit
more of affection for the drunken lad who had become the ardent admirer
of the blacksmith’s daughter, but this last fact was too significant
not to awaken her self-reproach. She felt at the bottom of her heart an
unacknowledged gladness that it was no longer in her power to go back,
and in the cares of her present life she soon forgot again those of her
past.

For the few shillings she received for her work at the theater were
not enough to pay her modest expenses for food and lodging without her
drawing upon the small sum she had brought with her from the Grange;
William’s money she had resolved not to touch except in case of utmost
need. So she tried her strength by living too simply, while she passed,
in spite of herself, at the theater as a “rich” lady, who “came behind”
for a freak. She had clothing enough to last for some time, and before
the end of the summer she was lucky in being able to sell a short
story; and then, after being for a few weeks out of work and in debt,
and almost in danger of absolute want, she got an engagement at a
salary which was just enough to live upon, but with no chance of more
than a few lines to speak.

And this was her life, with now and then a hope of something better
to do, followed always by disappointment and sometimes by despair for
nearly three years, at the end of which time she was still appearing
at a fashionable comedy theater, where she had been figuring in the
programmes for some months on the last line of the list of characters,
thus--“Maid, Miss Langton.”

And the brilliant future she had pictured once for herself seemed
further away than ever. For she had by this time mastered some of the
secrets of success on the stage. The highest success, she still knew,
fell only to the highest talent; and this belief, which was directly
against the creed of most of her companions, she held to the end. It
was all luck, they said. It was chiefly luck, she thought too--the luck
of being somebody’s son or somebody’s daughter, of having good looks
and bad principles or wealthy friends, of being by chance on the right
spot at the right time; and luck had been against her.

Disappointment, too, and weary, weary waiting had taken the bloom off
her beauty, which was of a type depending very much on expression; and
the look her face habitually wore now was that of a woman whom cares
and failures and struggles with necessity had reduced to an automaton.
Yet in some respects her position would not have been an unenviable one
to a less ambitious woman. The conscientious care which had formerly
made her a good governess, and later an almost too submissive wife to
her careless husband, made her now fill her very unimportant _roles_
with an attention to the most trifling details which obtained for
her the consideration of the authorities in the theater, although it
was of course not possible that her efforts to be artistic in her
representation of monosyllabic maids should attract the attention of
the general public or of the critics in front. And her salary, though
not high, was now sufficient to keep her in comfort, which might have
been greater, had she been more economical. So that the privilege of
thinking herself a martyr was almost out of her reach.

She had not quite given up hope, though it was no longer joined to
bright confidence in ultimate success, when a small part was intrusted
to her which enabled her to show unmistakable signs of talent. It was
such a very small part, and it would so undoubtedly have improved the
piece from a dramatist’s point of view to cut out the scene it was in
altogether, that the critics took no notice, and the public did not
seem impressed. But it drew the attention of her companions to her;
and Annie, with her heart beating wildly, overheard more than one
prediction that she would “get on.”

With reawakened ambition, her old high spirits came back to her; the
cloud of cold reserve which closed over her in spite of herself when
she was unhappy, disappeared, and for the first time Annie found
pleasure in her profession. The society afforded at that time by the
theater she was in, was some of the pleasantest in London. It included
men and women who were among the world’s recognized pets--women of
beauty and men of wit, handsome actors, and two actresses of whom
Europe had acknowledged the genius. Annie felt the charm of this
brilliant circle, which was indeed, as theaters so seldom are, as
attractive as the outside world imagined it to be.

She was sitting in the green-room one evening, between the acts, when
two of the actors came in, discussing the beauty of a lady who sat in
one of the boxes nearest to the stage.

“I’m sure I’ve seen her in the Park,” said one; “and I’ve been told her
name; but I forget it.”

“Is that her husband behind her--the tall man with the eye-glass?”

“Don’t know, I’m sure. Should think not.”

The other laughed.

“She is the handsomest woman we have had in front for a long time--much
better-looking than any of the professional beauties. Perhaps she is a
professional beauty--eh?”

“No--too good-looking.”

It was the other’s turn to laugh; and, when they were called on to the
stage, they were still criticising the unknown fair one and anxious for
another view of her.

Annie’s curiosity was excited, and, contrary to her custom of devoting
her attention entirely to what was going on on the stage, she managed,
on her next appearance to say a few lines, to get an opportunity of
looking toward the box the two speakers had indicated. And she gave
one of the slightest, most imperceptible of starts, for the lady was
Lilian, exquisitely dressed and looking handsomer than ever. Annie
could not see the face of the man behind her in her glance at the box;
but she was anxious to know who it was, and later in the evening she
was satisfied; for a young actor named Gerald Gibson told another
in her hearing that the lady was Mrs. Falconer, that he had been to
a dance at her house two nights before, and that “the tall man with
the eye-glass,” who was one of the other occupants of the box, was a
Colonel Richardson, who had just returned from abroad.

All this filled Annie with excitement and anxiety. Had Lilian
recognized her? Who were the other people in the box? Had Colonel
Richardson really only just returned from abroad? These and other
questions concerning her sister-in-law and the rest of her husband’s
family kept her awake that night in a fever of newly awakened interest
in the Braithwaites. The remembrance of her life at Garstone occupied
her very little now, the long, solitary hours of daylight, when she
was not engaged in rehearsal, she filled by writing, her old taste for
which had revived to console her for her otherwise monotonous life.
After the exchange of a few letters with William, she had heard no more
from him, and it was now more than two years since she had received his
last. During all this time no news had reached her, of her husband or
his family. She had said of late bitterly to herself that, if they had
cared to do so, they would have found her out long ago, and she had
begun to wonder whether she would ever see any of them again, when this
unexpected, yet most natural event, showed her again the one of all the
Braithwaites whom she least cared to see.

Annie liked Gerald Gibson, as everybody in the theater did--a grave,
quiet, thoughtful-looking man, whose reserved manners impressed those
around him with respect, even though it was often merely the result of
his having nothing in particular to say. He might have been the son of
a cheesemonger, but he was as perfect a gentleman not only in look and
manner, but in mind, as if he had been the son of a duke. Annie knew,
though she had known him only a few weeks, that she could speak without
reserve to him. On the evening after she had seen Lilian, therefore,
she found an opportunity, when they were on the stage together, but not
immediately concerned in the business of the scene, of alluding to the
beauty who had made such a sensation among them the night before.

“I think I heard you say you were fortunate enough to know her, Mr.
Gibson,” said she, her interest peeping out from under the indifferent
words.

“I don’t know her well. I was introduced to her about ten days ago, and
somebody got me a card for an ‘At home’ at her house.”

“She is very beautiful, ain’t she?”

“Yes, very, for those who admire massive beauty.”

“Then don’t you admire her?”

“Yes; but I have seen women I admire more.”

“I don’t like such frosty enthusiasm. Is she nice, pleasant, amiable?”

“I don’t think ‘amiable’ is quite the word for that type of woman. But
she is very brilliant, very charming.”

“I used to know her once before she was married,” said Annie in a low
voice. “I am glad to hear she is happy.”

“I am scarcely able to judge of that. Ladies act so well, even when
they are not on the stage, and they are often charming when at heart
they are very miserable; so the novelists say.”

“You don’t think she is miserable, do you?” asked Annie, anxiously.

“Indeed I have no reasons for thinking so. She seems to have everything
she can want, beauty, wealth, position, a good husband.”

“Then Mr. Falconer is nice?”

“He is generally popular, I believe; but I have scarcely seen him.”

“Ah!” escaped suddenly from Annie’s lips. She thought those last words
significant.

She could not bring the conversation round to Colonel Richardson now
without exciting his suspicions, so she merely asked him not to mention
that she had ever known Mrs. Falconer.

“I wish to remain _perdu_ to my old friends until I have got on--if I
ever do get on,” she added, sadly.

“You will get on, Miss Langton. How can you doubt it!”

“How can I do anything but doubt it? I have waited so long, and seem no
nearer the end.”

“But you must be nearer the end.”

“Ah--but what end?”

She turned away with a little shrug of the shoulders, and his eyes
followed her with interest. She was not massive and he found more
attraction in her face than in those of all the professional beauties.

A few evenings later, as he was leaving the theater when his share of
the performance was over, he saw Miss Langton in front of him walking
down the quiet street where the stage-door was. A gentleman standing
on the opposite pathway crossed over and raised his hat to her. Gerald
Gibson saw her start, stop, hesitate, and finally put out her hand.
Gerald passed them, but neither noticed him; and he recognized the
gentleman as Colonel Richardson, whom he had met at Mrs. Falconer’s.

“That was the reason of her interest in Mrs. Falconer then!” thought
Gerald.