I traveled about four points north of the northeast group. I am a fast
walker; even through sand I can travel faster than most men. I was
slightly ahead of all the other groups when suddenly I could go no
further. I could feel nothing, yet when I put out my foot to set it
down in a new place, it struck an invisible something, dropped back,
and my impetus carried me forward to involve my face in something much
finer than cobwebs.

I jumped back, swearing, for I could see nothing except the hot waste
of glistening sand. There were dunes, hummocks with strange grasses and
brush sticking up through them like beards; but I had struck the limit
of my trek and could not reach any of those visible spots beyond.

I pushed against it with my hands. It gave, but only as a taut wire net
might give, then press back against the hands; it was a strain to make
the thing bulge. The counterpressure was strong. I could not advance.
I turned to the right and saw that the nearest patrol had stopped. The
two men were fumbling in the air like blind men. They were raising
and lowering their feet as if they felt for steps above an abyss.
They, too, had come to the end of possible advance. They had come into
contact with invisibility also--invisibility that was inflexibly tough
beyond a certain brief limit.

The two men turned now and looked at me. I gave the halt signal and
started toward them. I ran into something and caromed off, falling
to my knees. The horrible thought struck me that each group might
have stumbled inside some hideous globe and become separated from all
other groups. But it wasn't so. I got to my feet, put my left hand out
against the invisible wall--which felt warm to the touch, as if it were
a living thing--and started toward the northeast group.

The surface of that strange substance was undulant; it zig-zagged, like
the weaving walk of a drunken man.

I reached the first patrol, Corporal Hoge Ziegler and Private First
Class Barry Preble. Their faces were white. I wouldn't say they were
scared but they were definitely concerned.

"Well, at least we've discovered what it was we ran through at the
moment we hit the beach," I offered. "All we need to do is find a way
through it, and go on with our maneuver."

Ziegler shook his head. "No, sir, I don't see it like that. We can see
through this stuff, or seem to, but we can't see back the way we came,
astern of the landing craft."

"Right, corporal; what do you think it is, then?"

"I'm no scientist, sir. I'd say it is a net of some kind, in which we
have been caught, landing craft and all, like so many fish. But by
whom? By what? For what reason? It has me stopped."

"I wonder--" began Preble, then stopped, staring at the place where he
and Ziegler had come to a dead stop. Preble stepped back. In his arms
he cradled one of the latest automatic weapons.

Preble stepped back, lifted the muzzle of the weapon, held down the
trigger for a few squirts. The weapon acted naturally enough. There was
no question that the bullets left the muzzle of the fast-firer. But we
didn't hear them hit the invisible screen; nor, looking beyond it, did
we see where the bullets kicked up sand. The bullets simply plunked
into nothingness as bullets of an obsolete day vanished into soap or
sand during firing tests.

A few seconds passed. Then there were soft sounds in the sand at the
very spot where the two marines had hit the wall. All three of us
looked down. The flattened, steel-jacketed bullets lay in a small group
in the sand, within a couple of inches of the invisible wall--on our
side of it.

"Caught the bullets, like a baseball catcher!" said Preble, his voice
high-pitched with threatened hysteria. "Then just dropped 'em! Took
them in, killed their speed, then slowly discarded them! And I saw the
wall do it!"

Ziegler and I had not seen this phenomenon, but we were not directly
behind the weapon, as Preble was.

I lifted my binoculars for the first time and looked around at the
other patrols, all of which I could see easily. All except those which
followed a southerly direction had come to the wall and were just as
puzzled by it as we. None of us had anything to offer; we were even
afraid to think lest we question our own sanity.

We held our ground until all patrols had come up against the invisible
wall. Then we had some idea of the extent of our prison. That brooding
mountain to the south, it appeared, was forbidden to us.

How high did the wall reach? Was it domed?

"Preble, fire as nearly straight up as you can," I told the private.
"Then we'll duck away fifty or sixty yards, just in case, and listen."

Ziegler and I stepped well back. Preble took careful aim. He squirted a
few score slugs, then ran to join us. We were so silent we could not
even hear each other's breathing. Shortly we heard the bullets drop
into the sand, and stepped forward.

Theoretically a bullet fired straight up strikes the ground with
the same speed at which it was fired--so the slugs would have been
flattened anyway. But we had noticed a thin film of some substance
unknown to us around the slugs which had been first fired into the wall.

That same substance was clinging to the several slugs we managed to
sift up from the sand. Our wall of invisible tension was a dome!

"I feel like a bug!" said Preble. "I feel like a bug must feel when a
scientist wants to study it. The scientist keeps covering it with a
glass tumbler when it tries to walk or fly away!"

"Do you suppose our own authorities," said Ziegler, "would be trying
out a new interdiction weapon on us? Major, they wouldn't do it without
at least telling you, sir, would they?"

"They might," I said. "There are secret weapons only the highest high
brass knows about. But if your hunch is right, corporal, we've sure
got ourselves something, haven't we? Wouldn't it be something if we
could throw an invisible net over every dive bomber of an enemy, every
warship, every man, and nullify the attack before it got started?"

"It would make them all feel pretty silly," said Preble. "But suppose
an enemy had such a 'net'? Suppose it could reach out from anywhere in
the world--"

Slowly we all walked back to the LCVP's.

"Something else funny," said Ziegler. "It's noon now, by our time. The
sun says it's about four in the afternoon or thereabouts. But we're
still ordinary marines, aren't we? Maybe I'm different from the rest of
you, but doesn't it strike you as off--"

"I'm not hungry," said Preble. "Nor thirsty! By this time of the
day, when we had breakfast at oh-six-hundred at Guantanamo, I'd be
starving." Preble was the company chow-hound. "But I'm not hungry, or
thirsty. You, corporal?"

Ziegler shook his head. He was by way of being a hearty eater himself,
while I confess I came as close to being a glutton as an officer and a
gentleman dares allow himself to be.

We had hiked for several hours under a blazing sun. Moreover, all of
us had sweated away a lot of moisture. Each of us carried a canteen of
water, so water was not yet a problem; but the point is, none of us had
taken a drink!

When we got back to the LCVP's it was to find that nobody else was
either hungry or thirsty....

"We're prisoners," said Captain Haggerty, "that's clear. And according
to the laws of war, prisoners are fed. If we've been fed, and given
water without eating or drinking, _how_?"

"Through our pores!" said Preble impetuously.

There was a long moment of silence which somebody had to break pretty
soon.

Lieutenant Hoose broke it.

"Personally, I don't want to be sprinkled by something invisible, even
if I'm dying of thirst. And if food is being somehow rubbed into us,
I'd just as soon nobody rubbed it in! I'm not too lazy to chew for
myself!"

It brought the first laugh. Hoose had a drawling manner of speech which
sometimes caused the men in ranks some discomfort to keep their faces
straight. We were more relaxed than we had been, for we appeared to
be in no danger. Besides, we were extremely well armed. If anybody
attacked us--but I refused to think too much about that. I had a
sneaking hunch that our top-secret weapons were, in this place, just so
much metal, value zero.