I was proud of the marines when the Japs asked for food and water. Not
one of them spoke up and said, "You don't need either one here." I knew
then that every marine regarded it as at least _possible_ that what was
happening to us was a top-brass secret, or series of secrets, of our
own government. I doubted it because of what happened to Yount. The
government doesn't risk human lives on a whim. But the possibility was
there. I hadn't expected Yount to tackle me, either, or to hurl himself
into the shadow which slew him.

We all had canteens, none of which had been emptied. And no landing
would have been properly simulated without food. We let the Japs come
among us, then Hoose, who spoke some Japanese, and Matzuku, a Jap
corporal who spoke some English, got together.

The Japanese were seated with their backs against an LCVP and canteens
were passed to them, together with our special rations. They drank as
if they had forgotten the glory of water, ate as if they had forgotten
how. I gave them a little time. We did not pull in our defensive rings,
even though it could be seen that they were not especially useful. When
the Japs seemed more or less sated, I got Matzuku and Hoose together
and began asking questions.

KING: "Where have you been for the past four years?"

MATZUKU: "Hiding out in the hills. What place is this? I know the whole
island, but I don't remember this desert area."

KING: "_What_ island?"

MATZUKU: "Guam, of course, as you Americans call it."

I pondered the matter a few minutes. It wasn't possible that these
Japanese had finally decided to surrender, had started hunting marines
to whom to turn in their rusty weapons--then walked through the
invisible dome, out of the hinterland of Guam into the midst of what
we fondly believed to be Cuba. Yet here they were, flesh-and-blood men,
and here were we, also flesh-and-blood men--or so we thought.

Of course, Matzuku and his men were as much prisoners as we were. They
were not only prisoners of whatever manipulated the dome, but they were
our prisoners as well. There was nothing they could do, nowhere they
could go with any secrets filched from us; but I decided not to tell
them anything.

Matzuku, I noticed, was studying the sky. I watched his brown face as
he struggled with some idea that plainly had him buffaloed. He looked
at me quickly, then looked away. He knew something, but was afraid to
say what it was. I could at least make it clear to him that he was not
crazy, need not be afraid to say what was in his mind.

"You are amazed, corporal," I said, "to discover that you can't
possibly be on Guam. I see that you know something of astronomy. It
won't be taken amiss if you hazard a guess as to where you are, and how
you got here."

"I should like to do that, sir," said the Jap corporal, "but it does
not seem possible that we should merely have seen a marine patrol,
scouting the jungles of Guam, approached them to surrender, and found
ourselves in the Kalahari Desert! It isn't possible, therefore I must
not know the stars as well as I had thought. And yet, sir, I _do_ know
the stars. Unless this is delirium induced by fever, lack of water and
food over the years, we _are_ somewhere in the Kalahari Desert!"

"Let's go have a look, Matzuku," I said. "You, too, Hoose. Haggerty,
you'd better stay with the command."

Matzuku, Hoose and I started back the way the Japs had come. Matzuku
seemed to have forgotten his fatigue, the fact that he had been
practically a walking dead man when he approached the "patrol" to
surrender. Ten sets of footprints led in a wavering line back to the
invisible dome which hemmed us in. Hoose and I hung back to let Matzuku
go on ahead of us. He came to the invisible wall and halted, looking
foolish as a fore-thrust foot slid down what appeared to be nothingness.

The footprints all ended against the invisible wall. Moonlight shed
its brilliance over everything, and we could see far out beyond the
invisible wall, into the eerie area of sand dunes, stunted brush, to a
horizon which offered no hope whatever.

"We couldn't have come from out there!" said Matzuku wonderingly. "We
came out of the Guamian jungles, but our footprints don't start until
we reach this invisible barricade." Matzuku turned on me. "I have no
right to ask, but what kind of a concentration camp _is_ this? We
Japanese have much experience in camps, but we use barbed wire, high
rock walls with broken glass embedded in their tops, or dungeons and
caves."

I grinned at the little corporal.

"You don't use energy domes, then," I said, "or compress invisibility
into a solid?"

"No," said Matzuku, "_do you?_"

He had guessed we were prisoners also. I didn't explain. After all,
how could I? We three went back to the LCVP. I ordered the Japanese
into the LCVP on our right flank, placed a guard over them, not because
we had any fear of them, but so they would not hear our discussion.
They showed no interest whatever. They sprawled out on the deck of the
LCVP and were asleep, and raucously snoring, before we met in plenary
session--save for the single guard over the Japanese--near the grave of
Yount's skeleton.

"Could we really be in the Kalahari Desert?" asked Haggerty.

"We could," I said. "The Japs could also be decoys, deliberately sent
to us to make us believe whatever we're supposed to believe. I'm only
sure of one thing: we're not on Yataritas Beach, Cuba!"

"Are we really sure of _that_, even?" asked Captain Haggerty. I had to
admit that we were sure of nothing.

"We seem to be unmolested for the time being," I said. "But we can't
just sit here and brood. Those of you who want to sleep, turn in
wherever you like. Those who want to help figure out what has happened
to us, assemble here with me and we'll see if we can get anywhere."

"You don't suppose, sir," said Krane diffidently, "that we're
all--dead, or something? With all those fancy explosives we brought
along--"

Nobody laughed. Nobody snickered. And nobody drew away to hit the sack.

"I don't believe we're dead, Music," I said, "but I could be wrong
about that, too. I think your 'or something' comes about as close to an
answer as anything we have. Now, I'm open to suggestions as to how we
find out what ails us, where we are, how we get out; what, in general,
it all seems to be about."

"The Shadow Men," said Ziegler, "what were they?"

Nobody knew.

There was something in the shadows. A smell, and something else. Why
didn't the stuff, whatever it was, destroy bones as well? Had we really
heard Yount scream inside the shadow?

We recapitulated everything we could remember. As if we could forget
anything! And it all added up to a nightmare.

"The walkie-talkies," said Haggerty. "We've got eighty-odd of them.
They can all be adjusted to different wavelengths. I suggest we
estimate how many, and then each of us take his share of them, and
start sending, not only in Morse and International codes, but in every
language we know, down to Greek and Latin!"

It was long past midnight by the time we had worked out charts of
wavelengths for the walkie-talkies, and divided them among us. Then we
scattered, first stripping off our jackets and laying our fast-fire
weapons on them to keep the weapons from being fouled by sand. We
needed our hands free.

"The first whisper anybody gets, he'll sing out," I instructed officers
and men.

Marines acquire a lot of miscellaneous information--and plenty of
misinformation. Among seventy-five or eighty one would find a dozen
European languages, Gaelic probably, three or four Chinese dialects, a
smattering of Congo jabbering, a spot of Latin, a touch of Greek. If
someone asked me, anywhere, anytime, in the presence of as few as a
dozen marines, if any of them knew Sanskrit I would hesitate to say no.

We turned all that mess loose on our walkie-talkies. If anybody ever
really "shot the moon," it was us.