Now and again, during a comfortable afternoon, I sent out patrols to
check on the invisible wall. They always found it. Either it was there
continuously, or it was dropped when nobody was near and hurriedly
restored when a patrol went out to check.

The feeling that everything we did or said was noted and heard began
to make us wary of movement and speech. We tried to pick out vantage
points from which we could be seen. Any one of the dunes outside our
prison might have hidden something. But discussing it, none of us felt
that this was up to the standard of behavior of whatever it was that
held us.

That's about as far as we got before the sun went down with startling
suddenness and darkness settled over our Limbo. The darkness was
impenetrable. It lasted perhaps an hour. Then a sort of haze seemed to
withdraw in all directions, inwardly and outwardly--and the wondrous
tropical sky, studded with stars that hung down almost within reach of
human hands, bathed our upturned faces.

In silence we all watched. There was an unusual coolness in the air,
too, for several minutes, Cuba, at that time of the year, was almost
never cool, even late at night; but some of the men were shivering.
Sweat had not dried on all of us, and sweat is bad when you are
motionless, at night. I was about to order the men to exercise a
little, when I realized something that Hoose put into words first:

"Now," he said, "they're feeding us warmth, just as they feed and water
us! And we've been here for hours and don't have any idea, even, who or
what they are!"

Nobody else said anything. All the rest of us were studying the sky.

"I don't see the Big Dipper!" said Sergeant Eckstrom.

"Nor the North Star!" somebody added.

"Nor Venus, nor Lyra!" said someone else. "I've been studying our books
on constellations, and I don't recognize a one! _Where are we?_ We're
not even in Cuba! Not even in the Northern Hemisphere! Not even--"

"Not even on the Earth--?" said Hoose.

It was just here that the whispering began in our walkie-talkies;
whispering like nothing we had ever heard. We could make out nothing
that sounded at all like human words. The sounds were mechanical, yet
not-mechanical. I've called them whispers only because that comes
closest to describing the eerie sounds which every last one of us was
now hearing in his walkie-talkie.

"It's vibration on our wavelength," said one of the gobs. "But that's
the best I can say of it."

"Morse? International?" I asked.

But nobody could offer an answer.

Right after that we saw the Shadow Men, inside the dome. Something of
that which held us at last became visible.