We thought we were all dead men. We had all seen pictures of survivors
of Hiroshima, with their skin burned off their bones.

The Japs had not seen. They had been in the Guamian jungles and had not
even heard of Hiroshima. I told them. They looked at one another in
amazement. All this time we cowered in the heart of the explosion, and
for the first time we could see the shape and extent of the dome which
imprisoned us. It was outlined in smoke through which shot tongues of
blue, green, and salmon pink. In the cloud which surrounded us we could
see all the prisms play--and inter-flashing of lights of all colors
that was unbelievably awesome. Yet we heard no sound. There was an
eerie glow on the sand around us which must have come from the light,
but if it had any ill effect on our bodies we have not yet become aware
of it.

We had kept our watches wound and synchronized, so we timed the
duration of the blast. The cloud about us lasted for two hours. Then it
began slowly to disintegrate.

"Out to the walls, now," I said. "We'll move out from the center as
skirmishers. Then, at my signal, when we're against the wall, we'll
circle to the right until we have examined every inch we can reach or
see."

Far above the dome we saw the great snowy mushroom of the blast's
residue, with lights playing through it. We looked out through the wall
at the sand beyond--and there _was_ no sand. Only a landscape shaped
as it had been when it had been sand; but now it was a smooth, rolling
expanse of light green! The blast had been a vast primordial glazier,
and the sand was not sand now, but green glass--right up to the outside
of our still invisible dome! We marched out and looked through. We
did the natural things, like putting our hands up beside faces that we
pressed nose-flat against the invisible. The wall felt warm, but no
warmer than it had felt before the blast. Our dome had withstood every
possible destructive effect of the A-bomb blast!

I stood there, staring out. I looked around, and the marines, sailors
and Japanese were standing in the same manner--looking out and through
like children looking through a zoo fence.

We must all have realized it at the same time. I noticed, first, that
there was suddenly a space between the outside of the wall and the sea
of green glass. I noticed that it ran away to right and left, a border
between the glass and our sand, which became a little wider even as I
stared. Then I felt pressure against the toes of my field shoes. Then
I was being pushed bodily back, and the sand border outside was a foot
wide!

I whirled this time, back against the wall, to stare at the others.
They were all facing inboard, too. It was clear that all had noticed
the widening border, that each knew the fact: our dome was closing in
on us, all around.

Probably most of us had read Poe's "Pit and the Pendulum" and enjoyed
the spine-tingling horror of the walls closing in to crush the hapless
victim.

Just now it was far from thrilling.

From all sides the wall closed in. We looked away to the south. The
entire mountain there had become greenish, as if it, too, had turned to
glass.

"No one blast," said Haggerty grimly, "did that. Not even the best we
have in A-bombs could have done so much. That mountain is ten, fifteen
miles away, at least. There must have been more A-bombs...."

"And maybe more domes," said Hoose. "How do we know that this whole
desert isn't dotted with them?"

"Each one with its bugs under it for scientific study," said Haggerty
wryly.

My mind went around and around. The Shadow Men ... Mangbetu ... the
blast ... the desert ... the betrayal by the very sky itself ... the
Japanese....

I had to turn it off or go crazy. Besides, the closing wall wasn't
giving us much time. Faster and faster it advanced.

It was clear that we were being pushed deliberately inward on the
LCVP's. Within a few minutes we were practically on the LCVP ramps.

"Grab all weapons!" I yelled. "Don't risk finding them on the pay roll!"

Marines who lose weapons have to pay for them. That's what I meant,
silly as it seems in the circumstances.

Just as we were falling in at the sand-covered ramps of the three
LCVP's, Krane cried out: "Where are the Japs?"

It gave me a chill. There was no escaping a peculiar fact: that even
while the invisible was herding us, assembling us before our LCVP's,
something of it, or about it, had snatched away the Japanese. They had
simply vanished.

The walls were not circular now, but oval, roughly encompassing the
LCVP's. Haggerty assembled his men before his LCVP. Hoose did the same.
Mine assembled about me on the central ramp.

Then, when we were inside, in position as he had been when we landed,
with only one man missing--Yount--the wall ceased closing in. For ten
minutes we wondered about this. Then I had a hunch.

"Can we raise the ramps without the motors?"

We couldn't, not all the way, but we could, with two men at each outer
corner, raise them about four feet, catch and hold them with their
rattling chains.

When we figured this out we did it by the numbers--

And we almost left twelve men on the beach!

No sooner had we raised the ramps than the Caribbean was tugging at
our LCVP's, the waves trying to take them back to sea. Our ramp men
jumped up on their ramps, rolled crazily into the LCVP's, and the ramps
raised all the way, clicking into place to become the prows of the
unwieldy landing craft.

Cries of glee rose from our boat-handlers. Motors caught on the first
try, exactly as if they had not been idle for two weeks, and the LCVP's
were backing away from Yataritas Beach, turning, heading out to sea. I
whirled and looked out into the deep blue. I think all of us expected
to find the _Odyssey_ still standing off, waiting for us. But it wasn't
there.

"Can we make it back to Guantanamo Bay?" I asked the motorman. "Never
mind answering; we're going to!" A cheer rose from the marines and
sailors as we rounded the point we had never expected to see again, and
started west, in deep blue water, along the coast.

LCVP's aren't good travelers. They roll like eggs on a hill, but this
time nobody got seasick.

"Outpost Zero," said someone, looking back at Yataritas Beach. "If I
never even _hear_ of it again it will be too soon!"