V


“By Jove! Walter! I’m glad to see you.” Rutile sprang to his feet and
hurried forward as Topham entered the office of the embassy. “How are
you, old man?” he rattled on. “I heard you were coming, but didn’t
expect you quite so soon. Must have had a quick trip!”

Topham shook hands, smilingly. No sign of distress on account of the
missing papers clouded his eyes.

“Pretty quick,” he answered. “Glad to get here; however.”

Rutile turned. “Let me present you to the ambassador,” he said. “Your
Excellency! This is Mr. Topham of the navy, an old friend of mine, en
route to Tokio via Brindisi and Suez.”

Topham started and shot a glance of surprise at Rutile. Then he turned
back to the ambassador, who smiled and put out his hand.

“I’m glad to see you, Mr. Topham,” he said, a little ponderously.
“Isn’t it er--rather unusual to go from Washington to Tokio by way of
Berlin?”

The ambassador’s tones were entirely casual, but Topham thought he
detected some veiled meaning in them, perhaps because he was thinking
of the secretary’s caution to say nothing to the ambassador about the
papers placed in his charge. “Well! yes! it is unusual,” he answered.
“You see the navy’s short of officers and has to make out as best it
can. They are going to make me earn my passage to Tokio by serving as
watch officer on the Nevada. She leaves Brindisi for Manila on Friday,
and I’m to join her, so as to let one of her present officers be
invalided home.”

“But even so, Berlin seems off your route.”

Topham laughed. “It is a little,” he assented. “But I had never been
here and I wanted to see old Rutile, and so I persuaded the personnel
bureau to make my orders read via Berlin. It isn’t much out of the way.”

“I see!” The ambassador rose. “I--er--thought at first that you might
have brought me some special instructions?” His voice had a slight
rising inflection at the end.

But Topham shook his head. “Nothing of the sort, I’m sorry to say,
Your Excellency,” he replied.

“No? It’s just as well. Special instructions are usually unpleasant.
I’ll be glad to see you at my house if your engagements will allow, Mr.
Topham.” He turned to the secretary. “Just send my mail in to me, will
you, Mr. Rutile?” he finished.

Rutile turned to a pile of mail that had evidently just been dumped on
the table. “Here are two letters for you right on top,” he remarked,
passing them over. “If I find any more, I’ll send them in.”

“Do!Mr. Topham, since you have come so far to see Mr. Rutile, I won’t
interfere with your chat with him any longer.”

The ambassador looked from one young man to the other and his eyes
twinkled; but he left the room with nothing more except a nod.

As soon as he was gone, Rutile turned to Topham. “Well! Let’s have it,
old man!” he exclaimed.

Topham did not answer at once. He had drawn near the table and was
staring at the pile of mail matter. “So this is how you get your mail,”
he remarked, with apparent irrelevance.

“That! Oh! that isn’t official mail! That’s mostly letters and papers
for tourists sent in care of the embassy. The official mail comes in a
private bag. But let’s have those instructions.”

Topham’s eyebrows went up! “What instructions?” he demanded.

“The instructions you brought me from the Secretary of State, of
course.”

“Oh!