THREE

                       DeLameters and Space-Axe!


Cloud wasted no time in swearing; he could swear and act
simultaneously. He flashed his cruiser up near the lifeboat, went
inert, and began to match velocities even before the Uhalian's
heat-beam expired. Since his intrinsic was not very far off, as such
things go, it wouldn't take him very long, and he'd need all the time
to get ready for what he had to do. He conferred briefly with the
boat's Chickladorian pilot upon his visual, then thought intensely.

He would have to board the lifeboat--he didn't see any other way out
of it. Even if he had anything to blast it with, he couldn't without
killing innocent people. And he didn't have much offensive stuff; his
cruiser was not a warship. She carried plenty of defense, but no heavy
offensive beams at all.

He had two suits of armor, a G-P regulation and his vortex special,
which was even stronger. He had his DeLameters. He had four
semi-portables and two needle-beams, for excavating. He had thousands
of duodec bombs, not one of which could be detonated by anything less
violent than the furious heart of a loose atomic vortex.

What else? Nothing--or yes, there was his sampler. He grinned as he
looked at it. About the size of a tack-hammer, with a needle point on
one side and a razor blade on the other. It had a handle three feet
long. A deceptive little thing, truly, for it weighed fifteen pounds
and that tiny blade could shear through neocarballoy as cleanly as a
steel knife slices through cheese. It was made of dureum, that peculiar
synthetic which, designed primarily for use in hyper-spatial tubes, had
become of wide utility. Considering what terrific damage a Valerian
could do with a space-axe, he should be able to do quite a bit with
this. It ought to qualify at least as a space-hatchet!

He put on his special armor, set his DeLameters to maximum intensity
at minimum aperture, and hung the hatchet upon a hook at his belt. He
eased off his blasts--there, the velocities matched. A minute's work
with needle-beam, tractors and pressors sufficed to cut the two smaller
ships apart and to dispose of the Uhalian's magnets and cables. Another
minute of careful manipulation and the cruiser had taken the Uhalian's
place. He swung out, locked the cruiser's outer portal behind him, and
entered the lifeboat.

As Cloud stepped into the boat's saloon he was met by a lethal,
high-intensity beam. He had not really expected such an instantaneous,
undeclared war, but he was ready for it.

Every screen he had was full out, his left hand held poised and ready
at his hip on a screened DeLameter. His return blast was practically a
reflection of Darjeeb's bolt, and it did vastly more damage, for the
Uhalian had made an error!

The hand which held the ray-gun was the one which had been manhandling
the pilot, and the monster had not had time, quite, to get it back
inside his screens. In the fury of Cloud's riposte, gun and hand
disappeared, as did a square foot of panel behind them. But Darjeeb had
other hands and other guns, and for seconds blinding rays raved out
against unyielding defensive screens.

Neither screen went down. The Tellurian holstered his DeLameter. It
would not take much of this stuff, he reflected, to kill some of the
passengers remaining in the saloon. He'd go in with his hatchet!