"We--and they--_do_ believe!" Luda broke in upon his somber musings.

"Huh? What? You do? You were listening?" Cloud exclaimed.

"Certainly. At your first thought I put myself en rapport with Darjeeb,
and he and his people--all of us--listened to your thoughts."

"But--you _really_ believe me?"

"We believe, all of us, but some will cooperate only as far as it seems
to serve their own ends to do so. Your Lensmen, if they are able to,
will undoubtedly have to kill that insect Darjeeb and--"

The insulted Uhalian drove in a protesting thought, but Luda went
calmly on, "You think, then, Tellurian, that your Lensmen can cope with
even such as Darjeeb of Uhal?"

"I'll say they can!"

"It is well, then. Come aboard, Darjeeb--unarmed and unarmored, as
I am. We will together go to confer with these visiting Lensmen of
Galactic Civilization. It is understood that there is to be no warfare
until our return."

"Holy Klono!" Cloud gasped. "He wouldn't do _that_, would he?"

"Certainly." Luda was surprised at the question. "Although he is an
insect, and is morally and ethically beneath contempt, he is, after
all, a reasoning being."

"QX." Cloud was dumbfounded, but tried manfully not to show it. "In
that case everything can be settled without another blow being struck."

Darjeeb came aboard the cruiser. He was heavily bandaged and most of
his hands were useless, but he apparently bore no ill-will whatever.
Cloud gave orders; the ship flashed away to meet the oncoming Patrolmen.

The conference was held, coming out precisely as Luda had foreseen. The
fleets returned, each to its home world, and plenipotentiaries of Dhil
and of Uhal held long meetings with the Lensmen.

"You won't need me any more, will you, Admiral?" Cloud asked, a few
days later.

"No. Nice job, Cloud."

"Thanks. I think I'll be on my way, then--clear ether!" And the Vortex
Blaster, after taking leave of his other new friends, resumed his
interrupted voyage--having added another solar system to the fellowship
of Galactic Civilization!