He lugged it up and leaped, driving straight forward at the flaming
projectors, with all of his mass and strength going into the swing of
his weapon. The enemy did not dodge, merely threw up a hand to flick
aside with his gun-barrel the descending toy.

Cloud grinned fleetingly as he realized what the other must be
thinking--that the man must be puny indeed to be making such ado in
wielding such a tiny, trifling thing. For, to anyone not familiar with
dureum, it is sheerly unbelievable that so much mass and momentum can
possibly reside in so small a bulk.

Thus, when fiercely-driven cutting edge met opposing ray-gun, it did
not waver or deflect. It scarcely even slowed. Through the metal of the
gun that vicious blade sliced resistlessly, shearing off fingers as it
sped. And on down, urged by everything Cloud's powerful frame could
deliver. Through armor it punched, through the bony plating covering
that tremendous double shoulder, deep into the flesh and bone of the
shoulder itself. So deep that its penetration was stopped only by the
impact of the hatchet's haft against the armor.

Under the impetus of the man's furious attack both battlers went down.
The unwounded Tellurian, however, was the first to recover control.
Cloud's mailed hands were still clamped to the sampler's grips, and,
using his weapon as a staff, he scrambled to his feet. He planted one
steel boot upon the helmet's dome, got a momentary stance with the
other thrust into the angle between barrel body and flailing leg, bent
his burly back and heaved. The deeply-embedded blade tore out through
bone and flesh and metal--and as it did so the two rear cabled arms
dropped limp, useless!

That mighty rear shoulder and its appurtenances were thoroughly _hors
du combat_. The monster still had one good hand, however--and he was
still in the fight!

That hand flashed out, to seize the hatchet and to wield it against
its owner. It was fast, too--but not quite fast enough. The man,
strongly braced, yanked backward, the weapon's needle point and keen
blade tearing through flesh and snicking off clutching fingers as it
was hauled away. Then Cloud swung his axe aloft and poised, making it
abundantly clear that the next stroke would be straight down into the
top of the Uhalian's head.

That was enough. The monster backed away, every eye aglare, and Cloud
stepped warily over to the captive, Luda. A couple of strokes of his
trenchant sampler gave him a length of chain. Then, working carefully
to keep his wounded foe threatened at every instant, he worked the
chain into a tight loop around Darjeeb's neck, pulled it unmercifully
taut around a stanchion, and welded it there with his DeLameter.

Nor did he trust the other monster unreservedly, bound though she was.
In fact, he did not trust her at all. In spite of family rows, like
has a tendency to fight with like against a common foe! But since she
was not wearing armor, she didn't stand a chance against a DeLameter.
Hence, he could now take time to look around the saloon.

The pilot, lying flat upon the floor, was beginning to come to. Not
quite flat, either, for a shapely Chickladorian girl, wearing the
forty-one square inches of covering which was _de rigeur_ in her eyes,
had his head cushioned upon one bare leg, and was sobbing gibberish
over him. That wouldn't help. Cloud started toward the first-aid
cabinet, but stopped. A white-wrapped figure was already bending over
the injured man, administering something out of a black bottle. He
knew what it was--kedeselin. That was what he had been going after
himself, but he would not have dared to give even a hippopotamus such
a terrific jolt as she was pouring into him. She must be a nurse and a
top-ranker--but Cloud shivered in sympathy.

The pilot stiffened convulsively, then relaxed. His eyes rolled; he
gasped and shuddered; but he came to life and sat up groggily.