The cruiser slowed--stopped--seemed to hang poised. Then slowly,
reluctantly, she moved upward, her dreadful exhausts continuing the
devastation.

"That's computin', mister," the pilot breathed. "To figure a dive
like that right on the nose an' then to have the guts to hold her
cold--skipper, that's computation!"

"All yours, pilot," Cloud demurred. "All I did was give you the
dope--you're the guy that made it good."

High in the stratosphere the Chickladorian cut the acceleration to a
thousand and Cloud took stock.

"Hurt, anybody?" Nobody was. "QX. We'll repeat, then, on the other side
of the lagoon."

And as the cruiser began to descend upon the new course the vengeful
Dhilian fleet arrived upon the scene. Looping, diving, beaming, often
crashing in suicidal collision, the two factions went maniacally to
war. Friend and foe alike, however, avoided the plunging Tellurian
ship. That monster, they had learned, was a thing about which they
could do nothing.

The second fortress fell exactly as the first had fallen, and as the
pilot brought the cruiser gently to ground in the middle of the shallow
lake, Cloud saw that the Dhilians, overwhelmingly superior in numbers
now, had cleared the air of the ships of Uhal.

"Can you fellows and your ships keep them off of my flitter while I
take my readings?" he demanded.

"We can," the natives radiated, happily. Four of the armored bone-heads
were _wearing_ the semi-portables. They had them perched lightly atop
their feeding heads, held immovably in place by two huge arms apiece.
One hand sufficed to operate the controls, leaving two hands free to
whatever else might prove in order.

"Let us out!"

The lock opened, the Dhilian warriors sprang out and splashed away to
meet the foot-soldiers who were already advancing into the lagoon.

Cloud watched pure carnage for a few minutes. He hoped--yes, there they
were! The loyalists, seeing that their cause was not lost after all,
had hastily armed themselves and were coming into the fray. There would
be no tanks--the navy would see to that.

The Blaster broke out his flitter then, set it down near the vortex,
and made his observations. Everything was normal. The sigma curve was
the spectacularly unpredictable thing which he had come to expect. He
selected three bombs from the cruiser's vast store, loaded them into
the tubes, and lofted. He set his screens, adjusted his goggles, and
waited, while far above him and wide around him his guardian Dhilian
war-vessels toured watchfully, their drumming blasts a reassuring
thunder.

He waited, eyeing the sigma curve as it flowed backward from the
tracing pen, until finally he could get a satisfactory ten-second
prediction. That is, he knew that ten seconds thence, the activity of
the vortex would match, closely enough, one of his bombs. He shot his
flitter forward, solving instantaneously the problems of velocity and
trajectory. At exactly the correct instant he released the bomb. He
swung his little bomber aside, went inertialess....