He was alone now, hurtling through a barren region of space toward
Rift Seventy-one and the vortex which was next upon his list. In the
interests of time-saving and safety--minions of the Drug Syndicate had
taken him by force from a passenger liner not long since, in order to
save from extinction a vortex which they were using in their nefarious
business--he was driving a light cruiser converted to one-man control.
In one special hold lay his vortex-blasting flitter; in others were his
vast assortment of duodec bombs and other stores and supplies.

And as he drove along through those strangely barren, unsurveyed
wastes, he thought, as always, of Jo. He had not as yet actually
courted death. He had not considered such courting necessary. Everyone
had supposed, and he himself hoped, that a vortex would get him in
spite of everything he could do. That hope was gone--it was as simple
to blow out a vortex as a match.

But it would be _so_ easy to make a slip--and a tiny little bit of a
slip would be enough.... No, the Vortex Blaster simply couldn't put
such a black mark as that on his record. But if something else came
along he might lean just a trifle toward it....

A distress call came in, pitifully, woefully weak--the distress call of
a warm-blooded oxygen-breather!

It would have to be weak, upon his low-powered apparatus, Cloud
reflected, as he sprang to attention and began to manipulate his
controls. He was a good eighty-five parsecs--at least an hour at
maximum blast--from the nearest charted traffic route.

He could not possibly get there in time. When anything happened in
space it usually happened fast--it was almost always a question of
seconds, not of hours. Cloud worked fast, but even so he had no time
even to acknowledge--he was just barely in time to catch upon his
communicator-plate a tiny but brilliant flash of light as the frantic
sending ceased.

Whatever had occurred was already history.

Nevertheless, he had to investigate. He had received the call and it
was possible, even probable, that no other spaceship had been within
range. Law and tradition were alike adamant that every such call
must be heeded by any vessel receiving it, of whatever class or upon
whatever mission bound. He hurled out a call of his own, with all of
his small power. No reply--the ether was empty.

Driving toward the scene of catastrophe at max, Cloud did what little
he could do. He had never witnessed a space emergency before, but he
knew the routine.

There was no use whatever in investigating the wreck itself. The
brilliance of the flare had been evidence enough to the physicist
that that vessel and everything too near it had ceased to exist. It
was lifeboats he was after. They were supposed to stick around to be
rescued, but out here they probably would not--they would head for
the nearest planet to be sure of air. Air was far more important than
either water or food--and lifeboats, by the very nature of things,
could not carry enough air.

Approaching the charted spot, he sent out the universal "_survivors?_"
call and swept all nearby space with his detectors--fruitlessly.

But this was not conclusive. Since his cruiser was intended solely
to get him safely from one planet to another, he had only low-power,
short-range detectors. Of course, his communicator, weak as it was,
could reach two or three times as far as any lifeboat could possibly
be--but he had heard more than once of lifeboats, jammed full of women
and children, being launched into space without anyone aboard who could
operate even a communicator.

It required only a few minutes to pick out the nearest sun. As he shot
toward it he kept his detectors fanning out ahead, combing space mile
by plotted cubic mile. And when he was halfway to that sun his plate
revealed a lifeboat.

It was very close to the solar system toward which Cloud was
blasting--entering it--nearing one of the planets. Guided by his plate,
he drove home a solid communicator beam.

Still no answer!

Either the lifeboat did not have a communicator--some of the older
types didn't--or else it was smashed, or nobody aboard could run it.
He'd have to keep his plate on them and follow them down to the ground.

But what was that? Another boat on the plate? Not a lifeboat--too big,
but not big enough to be a regular spaceship. It was coming out from
the planet, apparently. To rescue? No--what the hell! The lug was
beaming the lifeboat!

"Let's go, you sheet-iron lummox!" the Blaster cried aloud, kicking in
his every remaining watt of drive. Then, eyes upon his plate, he swore
viciously, corrosively.