FOUR

                       Two Worlds for Conquest!


When Luda had given him the entire picture, Cloud saw that it was far
from bright. Darjeeb's coup had been planned with surpassing care and
been executed brilliantly; his spies and fifth columnists had known
exactly what to do and had done it in perfect synchronization with
the armed forces striking from without. Drugged, betrayed by her own
officers, Luda had been carried off without a struggle. She did not
know just how far-reaching the stroke had been, but she feared that
most of the fortresses were now held by the enemy.

Uhal probably had the advantage in numbers and in power of soldiers
and warships then upon Lune--Darjeeb would not have made his bid
unless he had been able in some way to get around the treaty of strict
equality in armament. Dhil was, however, much the nearer of the two
worlds. Therefore, if this initial advantage could be overcome, Dhil's
main forces could be brought into action much sooner than could the
enemy's. And if, in addition, the vortex could be extinguished before
it had done too much irreparable damage, neither side would have any
real tactical advantage and the conflict would subside instead of
flaring up into another world-girdling holocaust.

Cloud would have to do something, but what? That vortex had to be
snuffed out--but defended as it was by Uhalians in the air and upon
the ground, how could he make the approach?

His vortex-bombing flitter was screened only against the frequencies of
atomic disintegration; she could not ward off for a minute the beams
of even the feeblest ship of war. His cruiser was clothed to stop
anything short of a mauler's primary blasts, but there was no possible
way of using her as a vehicle from which to bomb the vortex out of
existence. He had to analyze the thing first, preferably from a fixed
ground-station. Then, too, his special instruments were all in the
flitter, and the cruiser had no bomb-tubes.

How could he use what he had to clear a station? The cruiser had no
offensive beams, no ordinary bombs, no negabombs.

"Draw me a map, will you please, Luda?" he asked.

She did so. The cratered vortex, where an immense building had once
been; the ring of fortresses, two of which were unusually far apart,
separated by a parkway and a shallow lagoon.

"Shallow? How deep?" Cloud interrupted. She indicated a depth of a
couple of feet.

"That's enough map then--thanks." The physicist ruminated. "You seem
to be quite an engineer. Can you give me details on your power plants,
screen generators, and so on?" She could. Complex mathematical
equations flashed through his mind, each leaving a residue of fact.

"Can be done, maybe--depends." He turned to the Chickladorian.

"Are you a pilot, or just an emergency assignment?"

"Pilot--master pilot. Rating unlimited, tonnage or space."

"Good! Think you're in shape to take three thousand centimeters of
acceleration?"

"Pretty sure of it. If I was right I could take it standing on my head
without a harness, and I'm feeling better all the time. Let's hot her
up and find out."

"Not until after we've unloaded the passengers somewhere." Cloud went
on, with the aid of Luda's map, to explain exactly what he had in mind.