The bomb sped truly. Into that awful crater, through that fantastic
hell of heat and of lethal radiation and of noxious gas. It struck
the vortex itself, dead center. It penetrated just deeply enough. The
extremely refractory casing of neocarballoy, so carefully computed
as to thickness, held just long enough. The carefully-weighed charge
of duodec exploded, its energy and that of the vortex combining in a
detonation whose like no inhabitant of that solar system had even dimly
imagined.

The gases and the pall of smoke and pulverized tufa blew aside; the
frightful waves of fluid lava quieted down. The vortex was out and
would remain out. The Vortex Blaster went back to his cruiser and
stored his flitter away.

"Oh, you did it--thanks! I didn't believe, really, that you--that
anybody--could do it!" Luda was almost hysterical in her joyous relief.

"Nothing to it," Cloud deprecated. "How are your folks coming along
with the mopping up?"

"Practically clean," Luda answered, grimly. "We now know who is who,
I think. Those who fought against us or who did not fight for us very
soon will be dead. But the Uhalian fleet comes. Does yours? Ours goes
to meet it in moments."

"Wait a minute!" Cloud sat down at his plate, made observations and
measurements, calculated mentally. He energized his longest-range
communicator and conferred briefly.

"The Uhalian fleet will be here in seven hours and eighteen minutes.
If your people go out to meet them it will mean a war that not even
the Patrol can stop without destroying practically all of the ships and
men you have in space. The Patrol flotilla will arrive in seven hours,
thirty-one minutes. Therefore I suggest that you hold your fleet here,
in formation but quiescent, under instructions not to move until you
yourself signal them to do so, while you and I go out and see if we
can't stop the Uhalians."

"_Stop_ them?" Luda's thought was a distinctly unladylike one. "What
with, pray?"

"I don't know," Cloud confessed, "but it wouldn't do any harm to try,
would it?"

"No--probably not." And so it was done.

All the way out Cloud pondered ways and means. As the cruiser neared
the on-rushing fleet he sent a quick thought to Luda:

"Darjeeb is undoubtedly with that fleet. He knows that this is the only
inertialess ship in this part of space. He wants it worse than he wants
anything else in the universe. Now, if we could only make him listen to
reason--if we could make him see--"

He broke off. No soap. You couldn't explain "green" to the blind.
These folks didn't know and wouldn't believe what real power was. Any
one of those oncoming Patrol super-dreadnoughts could blast both of
these combined fleets clear out of space. Those primary beams were
starkly incredible to anyone who had never seen them in action. The
Uhalians didn't stand the chance of a fly under a mallet, but they
would have to be killed before they'd believe it. A damned shame, too.
The joy, the satisfaction, the real advancement possible only through
cooperation with each other and with the millions of races of Galactic
Civilization--if there were only some means of _making_ them believe--