Doctor Neal Cloud had once been a normal human being, gregarious and
neighborly. He had been concerned as little with death as is the
normal human being. Death was an abstraction. It was inevitable, of
course, but it could not actually touch him or affect him personally,
except at some unspecified, unconsidered and remote future time.

For twenty uneventful years he worked in the Atomic Research
Laboratory of the Galactic Patrol, seeking a way to extinguish the
"loose" atomic vortices resulting from the breaking out of control
of atomic power plants. At home he had had wife Jo and their three
kids--and what Jo had meant to him can be described adequately only in
mathematical, not emotional terms. They had formed practically a closed
system.

Hence, when a loose atomic vortex crashed to earth through his
home, destroying in an instant everything that had made life
worthwhile--Doctor Cloud had changed.

He had had something to live for; he had loved life. Then--suddenly--he
had not, and he did not.

Cloud had always been a mathematical prodigy. Given the various
activity values of a vortex at any instant, he knew exactly the "sigma"
(summation) curve. Or, given the curve itself, he knew every individual
reading of which it was composed--all without knowing how he did it.
Nevertheless, he had never tried to blow out a vortex with duodec. He
wanted to live, and it was a mathematical certainty that that very
love of life would so impede his perceptions that he would die in the
attempt.

Then came disaster. While still numb with the shock of it, he decided
to blow out the oldest and worst vortex on Earth; partly in revenge,
partly in the cold hope that he would fail and die, as so many hundreds
of good men had already died.

But it was the vortex that died, not Cloud. It was a near thing, but
when he was released from the hospital he found himself the most famous
man alive. He was "Storm" Cloud, the Vortex Blaster--Civilization's
only vortex blaster!

He had now extinguished hundreds of the things. The operation, once so
thrilling to others, had become a drab routine to him.

But he had not recovered and never would recover a normal outlook upon
life. Something within him had died with his Jo, a vital something had
been torn from the innermost depths of his being. That terrible psychic
wound was no longer stamped boldly upon him for all to see--it no
longer made it impossible for him to work with other men or for other
men to work with him--but it was there.

Thus he preferred to be alone. Whenever he decently could, he traveled
alone, and worked alone.