High above the stratosphere, inert, the pilot found his exact location
and flipped the cruiser around, so that her stern pointed directly
toward his objective upon the planet beneath. Then, using his
forward, braking jets as drivers, he blasted her straight downward.
She struck atmosphere almost with a thud. Only her fiercely-driven
meteorite-screens and wall-shields kept her intact.

"I hope you know what you're doing, chum," the pilot remarked
conversationally as the scene enlarged upon his plate with appalling
rapidity. "I've made hot landings before, but I always figured on
having a hair or two of leeway. If you don't hit this to a hundredth
we're going to splash when we strike--we won't bounce!"

"I can compute zero time to a thousandth and I can set the clicker to
within a hundredth, but it's you that'll have to do the real hitting."
Cloud grinned back at the iron-nerved pilot. "Sure a four-second call
is enough for you to get your rhythm, allow for reaction-time and lag,
and blast exactly on the click?"

"Absolutely. If I can't get it in four I can't get it at all. Pretty
close now, ain't it?"

"Uh-huh." Cloud, staring at the electro-magnetic reflection-altimeter
which indicated continuously their exact distance above objective,
began to sway his shoulders. He was more than a master computer. He
knew, without being able to explain how he knew, every mathematical
fact and factor of the problem. Its solution was complete. He knew
the exact point in space and the exact instant in time at which the
calculated deceleration must begin; by the aid of the sweep second-hand
of the chronometer--one full revolution of the dial every second--he
was now setting the clicking mechanism so that it would announce that
instant. His hand swayed back and forth--a finger snapped down--and the
sharp-toned instrument began to give out its crisp, precisely-spaced
clicks.

"Got it on the hair!" Cloud snapped. "Get ready, Thlaskin. Seconds!
Four! Three! Two! One! Click!"

Exactly upon the click the cruiser's driving blasts smashed on. There
was a cruelly wrenching shock as everything aboard acquired suddenly a
more-than-three-times-Earthly weight.

The Dhilians merely twitched. The Tomigan, standing behind the pilot's
seat, supporting and steadying his wounded head in its rest, settled
almost imperceptibly, but her firmly gentle hands did not yield a
millimeter. The nurse sank deeply into the cushioned bench upon which
she was lying, her quick, bright eyes remaining fixed upon her patient.
The Chickladorian girl, in her hammock, fainted quietly.

And downward the big ship hurtled, tail first, directly toward the now
glowing screens of a fortress. Driving jets are not orthodox weapons.
But properly applied, they can become efficient ones indeed, and these
were being applied with micrometric exactitude.

Down--down--down! The frantic Uhalians thought that it was
crashing--thought it a suicide ship. Nevertheless, they fought it. The
threatened fortress and its neighbors hurled out their every beam; the
Uhalian ships dived frantically at the invader and tried their best to
blast her down.

In vain. The cruiser's screens carried the load effortlessly.

Down she drove. The fortress' screens flamed ever brighter, radiating
ever higher under the terrific bombardment. Closer--hotter! Nor did
the frightful blast waver appreciably; the Chickladorian was a master
pilot. Down!

"Set up a plus ten, Thlaskin," Cloud ordered quietly. "I missed it a
bit--air density and the beams. Give it to her on the third click
from ... _this_!"

"Plus ten it is, sir--on!"

A bare hundred yards now, and the ship of space was still plunging
earthward at terrific speed. The screens were furiously incandescent,
but were still holding.

A hundred feet. Velocity appallingly high, the enemy's screens still
up. Something would _have_ to give now. If that screen stood up, the
ship must surely strike it, and vanish as she did so. But Thlaskin the
Chickladorian made no move nor spoke no word to hike his blast. If the
skipper was willing to bet his own life on his computations, who was he
to squawk? But ... was it possible that Cloud had miscalculated?

No! While the mighty vessel's driving projectors were still a few yards
away the defending screens exploded into blackness. The full awful
streams of energy raved directly into the structures beneath. Metal and
stone glared white, then flowed--sluggishly at first, but ever faster
and more mobile--then boiled coruscantly into vapor.