"What goes on here?" Cloud demanded ungently, in spaceal. The
Chickladorian's wounds had already been bandaged. Nothing more could
be done for him until they could get him to a hospital, and he _had_ to
report before he blacked out entirely.

"I don't know," the pink man made answer, recovering by the minute.
"All the ape said, as near as I could get it, was that I had to show
him all about inertialessness."

He then spoke rapidly to the girl--his wife, Cloud guessed--who was
still holding him fervently.

The pink girl nodded. Then, catching Cloud's eye, she pointed at the
two monstrosities, then at the Manarkan nurse standing calmly near
by. Startlingly slim, swathed to the eyes in billows of glamorette,
she looked as fragile as a reed--but Cloud knew that appearances were
highly deceptive in that case. She, too, nodded at the Tellurian, then
talked rapidly in sign language to a short, thick-muscled woman of some
race entirely strange to the Blaster. She was used to going naked; that
was very evident. She had been wearing a light robe of convention,
but it had been pretty well demolished in the melee and she did not
realize that what was left of it was hanging in tatters down her broad
back. The "squatty" eyed the gesticulating Manarkan and spoke in a
beautifully modulated, deep bass voice to the Chickladorian eyeful, who
in turn passed the message along to her husband.

"The bonehead you had the argument with says to hell with you," the
pilot translated finally into spaceal. "Says his mob will be out here
after him directly, and if you don't cut him loose and give him all the
dope on our Bergs he'll give us all the beam--plenty."

Luda was, meanwhile, trying to attract attention. She was bouncing
up and down, rattling her chains, rolling her eyes, and in general
demanding notice of all.

More communication ensued, culminating in, "The one with the
fancy-worked skull--she's a frail, but not the other bonehead's frail,
I guess--says pay no attention to the ape. He's a murderer, a pirate, a
bum, a louse, and so forth, she says. Says to take your axe and cut his
damn head clean off, chuck his carcass out the port, and get to hell
out of here as fast as you can blast."

Cloud figured that that might be sound advice, at that, but he didn't
want to take such drastic steps without more comprehensive data.

"Why?" he asked.

But this was too much for the communications relays to handle. Cloud
realized that he did not know spaceal at all well, since he had not
been out in deep space very long. He knew that spaceal was a simple
language, not well adapted to the accurate expression of subtle nuances
of meaning. And all those intermediate translations were garbling
things terrifically. He was not surprised that nothing much was
coming through, even though the prettied-up monster was by this time
practically throwing a fit.

"She's quit trying to spin her yarn," the Chickladorian said finally.
"She says she's been trying to talk to you direct, but she can't get
through. Says to unseal your ports--cut your screens--let down your
barrier--something like that. Don't know what she does mean, exactly.
None of us does except maybe the Manarkan, and she can't get it across
on her fingers."

"Oh, my thought-screen!" Cloud exclaimed, and cut it forthwith.

"More yet," the pilot went on, after a time. "She says there's another
one, just as bad or worse. On your head, she says--no, on your
head-bone--what the hell! Skull? No, _inside_ your skull, she says now.
Hell's bells, _I_ don't know what she wants!"

"Maybe I do--keep still a minute." A telepath, undoubtedly, like the
Manarkans--that was why she had to talk to her first. He'd never been
around telepaths much--never tried it. He walked a few steps and stared
directly into one pair of Luda's eyes. Large, expressive eyes, soft
now, and gentle.

"That's it, Chief! Now blast easy--baffle your jets. Relax, she means.
Open your locks and let her in!"