"Afraid it can't be done." The pilot shook his head glumly. "Your
timing has got to be too ungodly fine. I can do the piloting--determine
power-to-mass ratio, measure the blast, and so on. I'm not afraid of
balancing her down on her tail. I can hold her steady to a centimeter,
but piloting's only half the job you want. Pilots don't ever land on
a constant blast, and the leeway you allow here is damn near zero. To
hit it as close as you want, your timing has got to be accurate pretty
near to a tenth of a second. You don't know it, friend, but it'd take a
master computer an hour to--"

"I know all about that. I'm a master computer and I'll have everything
figured. I'll give you your zero in plenty of time."

"QX, then--what are we waiting for?"

"To unload the passengers. Luda, do you know of a place where they will
be safe? And maybe you had better send a message to Dhil, to call out
your army and navy. We can't blow out that vortex until we control the
city, both in the air and on the ground."

"That message was sent long since. They are even now in space. We will
land your women there." She pointed to a spot upon the plate.

They landed, but three of the women would not leave the vessel. The
Manarkan declared that she had to stay aboard to take care of the
patient. What would happen if he passed out again, with nobody except
laymen around? She was right, Cloud conceded. And she could take it.
She was a Manarkan, built of whalebone and rubber. She would bend under
3+ G's, but she wouldn't break.

The squatty insisted upon staying. Since when had a woman of Tominga
hidden from danger or run away from a good fight? She could help the
pilot hold his head up through an acceleration that would put Cloud
into a pack--or give her that dureum axe and she'd show him how it
_ought_ to be swung!

The Chickladorian girl, too, remained aboard. Her eyes--not pink, but
a deep, cool green, brimming with unshed tears--flashed at the idea of
leaving her man to die alone. She just knew that they were all going to
die. Even if she couldn't be of any use, even if she did have to be in
a hammock, what of it? If her Thlaskin died she was going to die too,
and that was all there was to it. If they made her go ashore she'd cut
her own throat right then, so there!

And that was that.

A dozen armed Dhilians came aboard, as pre-arranged, and the cruiser
blasted off. Then, while Thlaskin was maneuvering inert, to familiarize
himself with the controls and to calibrate the blast, Cloud brought
out the four semi-portable projectors. They were frightful weapons, so
heavy that it took a strong man to lift one upon Earth. So heavy that
they were designed to be mounted upon a massive tripod while in use.
They carried no batteries or accumulators, but were powered by tight
beams from the mother ship.

Luda was right; such weapons were unknown in that solar system. They
had no beam transmission of power. The Dhilian warriors radiated glee
as they studied the things. They had more powerful stuff, of course,
but it was all fixed-mount, wired solid and far too heavy to move. This
was wonderful--these were magnificent weapons indeed!