Jerry was at the microphone now, going through the _Sonnets From the
Portuguese, while the living jelly at the edge of the world quivered
and fled in shaking revulsion.

"The thing's alive," said Borden. "And it can't help receiving all
sorts of impressions. Like any other organism, it learns to disregard
any impression it receives that it can anticipate or classify. We
don't hear a clock ticking. If we live near a noisy street, we don't
hear traffic. But we wake if a door squeaks. That--white spot can
disregard the electric waves of lightning. It can disregard sunshine.
But it can't disregard things it can't fit into a pattern. It has
to pay attention. And I'm giving it the kind of unpatterned signals
that normally mean living things. Continuous, nonrepeat patterns of
stimulation. And--they're too strong for the devilish thing."

Ellen said doubtfully, "Too strong?"

"You touch people to call their attention. If you touch them too hard,
it isn't a touch but a blow, and you can knock them down. That's what
I'm giving this thing. It has the quality of a signal the spot can't
ignore, and the force of a blow. It should have the psychological
effect of thousands of bells of intolerable volume--only worse. But
we've got to keep on with the stimulus. And we mustn't repeat, or it
might be able to get used to the pattern."

"I'll talk to it in French," said Ellen. "But it doesn't seem to me
that a walkie-talkie could be too strong for--"

"It's hooked to the car's power system," Borden told her. "Jerry set it
up and connected it just before he began to recite poetry. There are
several kilowatts of radiation going to the thing now, and all of it is
attention-holding radiation."

When night fell and the use of a sun-mirror was patently impossible,
Borden moved on the highway toward what had been the white spot. The
walkie-talkie sent on its waves ahead.

Ellen recited, "_La fourmi et la cigale_" from second-year French.
Borden was more or less ready to take on from there with what he
remembered of Shakespeare.

They reached the end of the desert and all about them there was
the moist ground of the oasis which once had been the center of a
civilization. Presently they moved into the deserted, emptied buildings
of a city.

Borden said, "This civilization will be worth studying!"

They went on and on and on, talking endlessly, and driving the entity
which had conquered a planet by painstakingly recalled sections of
Mother Goose, and by haphazard recollections of ancient history, the
mythology of ancient Greece and Rome, and the care and feeding of
domestic cats.

When dawn came, Borden was speaking rather hoarsely into the
microphone, and the creature was plainly in sight before them. It
writhed and struggled spasmodically. It flung masses of itself insanely
about. It knitted itself into intricate spires and pinnacles, with
far-flung bridges, which shuddered and dissolved.