It did. A relay clicked somewhere, cut a current flow of some tens
of thousands of amperes. The lights inside the ship flashed to full
brightness. Borden's eyes flicked to the power-meters. The operational
power-tank meter read zero. The emergency reserve power-tank meter
showed a reading that made fresh sweat come out on Borden's face.

But the ports stayed black. Absolutely any form of energy striking
the feed-back field outside would be neutralized. No light would be
reflected. Any detector-field would be exactly canceled, as if nothing
whatever existed where the _Danaë_ hurtled onward some few hundred
miles above the planet's surface.

The _Danaë_, at the moment, was in the position of having made a hole
about itself to crawl into. But it couldn't use its drive. It couldn't
see out. It was hiding in blackness of its own creation, like a
cuttlefish in its own ink.

"Dee," Ellen Borden asked her husband in a shaky voice, "what happened?"

"Something threw a heat-ray at us," said Borden. He mopped his
forehead. "We should have exploded to incandescent gas. But our
feed-back field stopped it. The heat-ray cut off when we should have
been destroyed--and so did our field, so there we were again! And so we
got a second beaming. But now we aren't. At least we appear not to be.
So we can live until we crash."

Sattell said in a suddenly high-pitched voice, "How long will that be?"

"I don't know the gravity," Borden told him. "But it does take time to
fall four hundred miles. We have some velocity, too. It's under orbital
speed but it'll help. I'm going to figure something out."

He swung in the control-chair and hit keys on the computer. The size of
the white spot. It had all turned silvery, then all of it had flamed.
Why? The amount of power in the heat-ray--a rough guess. Nobody could
have figures on what a ship's tanks would yield on short-circuit, but
the field had had to neutralize some hundreds of megawatts of pure heat.

The amount of overlap--the size of the heat-ray itself--was another
guess and a wild one. And why had all of the white spot spat flame?
Every bit of it? Three hundred miles by an average of sixty.... Even at
low power--

The computer clicked.

"Sun-power," Borden said grimly, after a moment. "That figures out just
about right. Not more than a kilowatt to the square yard, but eighteen
thousand square miles has plenty of square yards! We've been on the
receiving end of a sun-mirror heat-ray, and if it had been accurately
figured we'd have fried." Then he said, "But a sun-mirror doesn't work
at night!"

He punched keys again. Presently he looked at his wrist-chronometer. He
waited.

"We're falling!" Sattell cried shrilly. "Do something!"

"Forty seconds more," said Borden. "I'm gambling your life, Sattell,
but I'm gambling Ellen's and mine too, not to mention Jerry's. Calm
down."

His eyes turned to the meter that showed the feed-back-field drain.
It was drawing precisely the amount of power needed to cancel out
the sunlight falling on it, as well as the starlight, and the light
reflected from the day side of the world below them. That drain was
less than it had been. They were crossing the planet's terminator--the
line dividing the light side from the dark side--as they plunged toward
the sandy deserts.