Ellen called and called. Her voice grew weary and her shoulders dropped
hopelessly as hours passed without reply.

Borden found where Sattell had crossed the wires so that if the ship
took off and went out into space, the control board would show all air
vents as safely sealed. But there would remain a small, steady drain of
leakage of the ship's air stores.

He also found a small alteration of the water-recovery system. They
would have run out of water on the way home. He found a cunning circuit
arranged so that if the ship rose on interplanetary drive and set out
on even a hopeless search for home, the instant it went into overdrive
its power tanks would fuse and short, and it would be left driveless
and powerless, to crash or drift helplessly until its occupants died
or went mad of despair.

Borden came back to the control room with his face set in savage lines.

"We didn't watch him," he said bitterly, "so he took advantage. Right
now he's gloating, sure we have to accept any terms he demands, for the
use of the log and maps to get home. And he's gloating because he'll
have his revenge if we refuse, and if we do make a bargain he'll tell
us how many ways we'd have died if we had not made it. We've got to
check every device and every piece of equipment in the ship before we
can lift off this planet--even after we've got fuel!"

He looked out a port. The shadows were long and slanting. It was
twilight. Night was near.

Ellen said drearily into the talkie:

"Jerry, Sattell has vanished. Please come in!... Jerry, Sattell has
vanished. Please come in!"

Far away, a tiny figure appeared in the half light. It came hastening
toward the _Danaë_. It was one of the furry bipeds, probably one of
those that had accompanied Jerry. It came through the dusk at an
agitated lope, using its long, furry arms to balance itself. It made
an agitated leap at sight of the space-ship and rushed onward more
frantically than before.

"Look!" cried Borden. "That looks like a messenger!"

He went out the air-lock door, his hand on the weapon in his holster.

The biped bounced at sight of him. Its fur flattened, but it came on
at a tearing rush. It leaped and slid and came to rest before him, its
trunk waving wildly. He bent to scratch it, according to the custom
that had become established in the past four days. But it did not wait.
It stood up, making excited chirping noises and gesturing wildly. It
made grimaces, in the falling night.

Then Borden noticed blood on its fur....