Ellen watched Borden's face as they drove through this fortress.

"Do you know what happened, Dee?" she asked.

"I think so," he said coldly.

"The white spot? It looks as if they had been fighting something that
came from there."

"They were," said Borden. "And I don't want Sattell to encounter the
thing they were fighting. He knows too much."

She studied his expression. She knew that they were making the top
possible speed toward that same white spot from which a heat-ray had
been thrown at them. He hadn't explained. Jerry was too diffident to
ask. Ellen was not, but something occurred to her suddenly.

"You said, the 'thing'!" she said, startled. "Not creatures or people
or anything like that! You said the thing!"

He grimaced, but did not answer her. Instead, he said. "I'll take the
tiller, Jerry. We've still got the talkie that Sattell sabotaged,
haven't we?"

Jerry nodded and shifted the tiller to him. They'd discovered that the
steering gear could be shifted from side to side of the front of the
vehicle, so that it could be driven from either the right or left
side. On a planet without cities but with highways running thousands of
miles to the polar ice-caps, long-distance driving would be the norm.
Conveniences for that purpose would be logical. Drivers could relieve
each other without difficulty.

"Look it over," commanded Borden. "The logical way to sabotage a talkie
would be to throw its capacitances out of balance. No visible sign of
damage, but I couldn't find a band it wasn't tuned to. See if that was
the trick."

Jerry busied himself as Borden drove on. Here the highway wound through
great hills, the color of iron rust and carved by wind and sand into
incredibly grotesque shapes. A long trail of swirling dust arose behind
the racing cruiser.

Borden said abruptly, "I've been thinking. Check me, will you two?
First, I think the people who made this vehicle were much like us. The
skeletons proved that. They had families and pets and they made cars
like this to travel long distances on highways they'd built from pole
to pole. This car uses normal electric power, and its power source is
good! So they should have had radio frequency apparatus as well as
power. But no radio frequency is being used on this planet. The race
that built this car, then, has either changed its culture entirely, or
been wiped out."

Jerry said blankly, "You mean, the people in the white spot--"

"Are not, and were not the race that built the roads and made this
machine," said Borden. "In fact, we've passed two forts where people
like us died by tens of thousands, fighting against something from
the white spot. They had long-range weapons, but at the end they were
fighting with fire. You saw the soot! It was as if they burned oil by
thousands of gallons to hold back something their long-range weapons
couldn't stop. Fire is a short-range weapon, though a sun-mirror
need not be. But nothing stopped this enemy. Vehicles like this were
pulled right in half. That doesn't suggest people. It suggests a
thing--something so gigantic and horribly strong that needle beams of
flame couldn't stop it, and against which flame seemed a logical weapon
to use. It must have been gigantic, because it could pull a land car
apart endwise."

Ellen waited. Jerry knitted his brows.

"I'm afraid," Jerry said, "I can't think of anything that would be big
and ... I just can't think what they could have been fighting."

"Think of what it wanted," Borden said drily. "It killed the
population, wiped them out. Back on Earth, a long, long time ago,
Ghenghis Khan led the Mongols to destroy Kharesmia. His soldiers looted
the cities. They carried away all the wealth. They murdered the people.
Plains were white with the skeletons of the folk they murdered. Do you
notice a difference here?"

Jerry said irrelevantly, "You were right about the talkie, sir.
Somebody's thrown it all out of tuning. I'll have to match it with the
other to make use of it." Then he said painstakingly, "The difference
between what you mentioned and the conquerors of the forts is that
the loot was left in the forts. Engines and weapons and so on weren't
bothered." Then he said in sudden surprise, "But the people weren't
left as skeletons! They were all scattered!"