Sattell raged when he was overruled. He was overruled over most things
because he couldn't be trusted. Borden wouldn't let him work on the
drive. He might try to make sure that if he didn't get back to Earth,
nobody else should, either.

Ellen took the dibble stick and the seed capsules and planted the crop
that might supply them with food. Each seed was enclosed in a gelatine
capsule with a bit of fertilizer and a spore culture of terrestrial
soil micro-organisms. Planted, by the time moisture reached the seed
there was a bed of Earth's own microscopic soil-flora around the seed
to help it grow.

But Sattell couldn't be trusted to plant seed, either, if the others
would benefit.

He couldn't even be allowed to work the fuel synthesizer. In that
apparatus plain water entered a force-field in which H^1 and H^2 simply
could not exist as molecules or ions. So the atoms frantically absorbed
heat energy from their surroundings to make pseudo valence-bonds and
develop giant hydrogen molecules which could only be written down as
being of molecular weight.

The fuel synthesizer was set up a good half-mile from the space-ship
and was developing a small ice-cap of its own. But it would be a long
time before there was drive fuel to refill the ship's tanks. Sattell
might sabotage that.

So he had to be treated as the pampered guest of those who believed
implicitly in his will to murder them. All arms were safely locked
away. Even the air-lock fastening had to be dismantled, so he couldn't
lock everybody else out of the ship.

And Borden and Ellen and Jerry went armed, and had nerve-rackingly to
be on guard at all times. But it would have been ridiculous to confine
Sattell so he had the status of a nonworking guest because he was a
potential murderer.

There was not much for Jerry to do either, except hold conferences with
his admirers. On the fifth twenty-hour day after the _Danaë's_ landing,
Jerry set off with an excited mob of furry, trunk-waving friends. He
carried a walkie-talkie, depending on the absence of radio waves from
the planet's atmosphere to make its use safe.

Two hours after he had headed north toward the ice, Borden and Ellen
came back from an inspection tour of the crops and fuel synthesizer,
and found that Sattell had disappeared, too. He'd taken all the food he
could conveniently carry from their depressingly short supply.

Borden swore bitterly. Sattell underfoot was a nuisance and a menace.
But Sattell at large might be more, and worse. There was no glamor in
being cast-away on this alien world, such as is shown in visi-screen
plays. The _Danaë_ was a small utility ship, suitable for small
expeditions for scientific purposes, or for the staking out of private
planetary estates--a common practice, these days--and the servicing of
such establishments.

Her eighty-foot length now rested slightly askew in the pit her landing
had made. About her was arctic flora, and the thick fur of the bipeds
suggested that they were arctic animals themselves. But here close to
the ice-cap was the only place on this planet where a man might hope to
survive. It was madness for Sattell to leave the ship.

"It doesn't make sense!" Borden said. "What has he to gain? He was
afraid we'd go off and maroon him. We can't do that with crops going,
the synthesizer working, and the drive pulled down. So what can he gain
by running off?"

Ellen said uneasily, "Jerry's armed. And he won't be suspecting
anything."

Borden scowled. "Get out the talkie and warn him. If Sattell surprises
Jerry and gets his blaster, he might bushwhack us!"