Twenty minutes after the first crackling impact of a heat-beam in the
valley, Borden was out of the ground car and moving carefully to peer
around a rocky column at the white spot.

Its appearance had changed. There was a rise in the ground level at
the edge of the white spot now. The stuff which was the creature
itself--which Ellen had aptly called a living jelly--had flowed
from other places to form a hillock there. Borden regarded it with
suspicion. Obviously, it could send out pseudopods. Amoebae can do
that, and he had just seen this thing form a sun-ray projector of
itself.

But Borden was not aware of the possibilities of a really protaean
substance to take any form it desires.

He saw the pseudopod start out. He was astounded. It did not thrust
out. The hillock, the raised-up ground level, suddenly sped out along
the highway with an incredible swiftness. He regarded it with a shock
that was almost paralyzing.

But not quite. He fled to the car, leaped into it, and sent it racing
down the highway at the topmost speed he could coax from it. His face
was gray and sweating. His hands shook.

Ellen gasped, "What, Dee? What's happened?"

"The beast," said Borden in an icy voice. "It's after us."

Ellen stared back. And she saw the tip-end of the white-spot's
pseudopod as it came racing into the end of the valley through which
the highway ran. It was a fifty-foot, shapeless blob of glistening,
translucent horror. And it did not thrust out from the parent body. It
laid down a carpet of its own substance over which its fifty-foot mass
slid swiftly.

An exact, if unimpressive, analogy would be a cake of wet soap, or
a mass of grease, sliding over a space it lubricated with its own
substance as it flowed, leaving a contact with its starting point as a
thin film behind. Or it could be likened to a roll of carpet, speeding
forward as it unrolled.

A hillock of glistening jelly, the height of a five-story building,
plunged into the valley at forty miles an hour or better. By sheer
momentum it flowed up the mountainside, curved, and came sliding back
to the highway and on again after the ground car.

But the car was in retreat at over a hundred miles an hour. It reached
a hundred and fifty miles an hour. Two hundred.

Borden stopped it five miles down the highway and wiped his forehead.

"Now," he said grimly, "I see why ordinary weapons didn't work against
it. The thing is protean, not amoeboid. It isn't only senseless jelly.
It has brains!"

He considered, frowning darkly. Then he turned the ground car off
the road. He drove it around a dune, and another. It became suddenly
possible to see across the desert toward the white mass at the horizon.