It was a queer place, they soon learned. The climate was cool, but
pleasant. There were no radio waves beneath a readily detectable
ionosphere. Yet apparatus over an area three hundred miles by an
average sixty--the white spot--had responded in seconds; in parts of
seconds.

Which meant electric control. Which implied radio. But there were
no radio waves, which should have been proof that there was no
civilization on this planet capable of doing what certainly had been
done. Which was nonsense.

On the fourth day after landing there had been no alarm, but there was
a good-sized group of furry bipeds always waiting hopefully about the
_Danaë_ for one of the humans to come out and scratch them. All but
Sattell. When he came out of the _Danaë_, the bipeds moved away. They
would not go near him.

"I am not comfortable," Borden said to Jerry. "Something drained power
from us. Enough to run the ship for two years was drained out in eight
seconds! But we land, and the only inhabitants are your fine furry
friends whose one purpose in life seems to be to get scratched. They
act more like pets than wild animals, and sometimes more like people
than pets. But if they're pets, did their masters try to kill us? What
does go on on this planet, anyhow?"

Jerry said modestly, "I'm beginning to understand the furry creatures a
little, sir. They're remarkably intelligent, for animals. They want me
to go somewhere with them. I'd like to. Is it all right?"

Borden said, "If you think it's safe. Ellen has the planting well under
way, and the fuel synthesizer is working after a fashion, although I'd
a lot rather have it working near the equator. I'm getting along fairly
well with rebuilding our drive, but there's a long job ahead. If other
planetary inhabitants don't find us and kill us, we're all right. If
they do find us, what you do won't matter. Go along if you like, within
reason. But I wish you could take Sattell with you."

That couldn't be done. The two-legged creatures hung about the ship
wearing an air of happy anticipation when all the humans were inside,
and flopping eagerly on their backs to be scratched, when they came
out. But when Sattell tried to approach one of the creatures, they fled
as if in terror. Not one had ever been knowingly within a hundred
yards of him--and he hated them.

When Jerry first reported that they had some sort of language and could
exchange simple facts--he didn't know whether they could exchange ideas
or not--Sattell savagely insisted that those who knew of the existence
of the ship should be killed, and any others who discovered it also
killed. The idea would be to keep the news of the _Danaë's_ landing
from reaching whatever other race might inhabit the white spot of the
heat-ray.

But there were always some of the furry ones around. Sometimes more,
sometimes less. Maybe only the same ones came to the ship. Maybe they
went away and others took their places. Neither Borden nor Jerry was
sure, but both demurred at killing. Besides, the news had already gone
as far as such creatures were likely to take it before Sattell proposed
to wipe them out.