The sun rose, and the thing should have been able to destroy them.
But it could not. It still writhed. It still shuddered. It twisted in
monstrous, weary, lunatic gyrations. Ellen regarded it with eyes of
loathing.

"It acts like it's gone mad," she said in revulsion.

"It may have," said Borden. "It's certainly exhausted. But we're
getting pretty tired, too." He said into the microphone, "You probably
don't understand this that I'm saying, any more then you understand any
of the rest. But you had this coming to you."

He handed the microphone to Jerry, who had suddenly remembered an
oration, _Spartacus to the Gladiators_. Jerry began to recite it.

But the writhings of the mountainous mass of jelly became more terribly
weary, more quiveringly effortful. There came a time when it quivered
only very, very faintly. Those quiverings ceased.

"I think it's dead, sir," said Jerry.

Borden snapped off the walkie-talkie. He snapped it on again. The
horrible, half-cubic-mile of jelly did not flinch.

Borden said drily, "Abracadabra, hocus pocus, e pluribus unum."

There was no sign of life in the thing. He watched grimly for any sign
of returning activity. By noon, though, it could be seen that the
ghastly mass of once-living substance was changing. It was liquefying.
There were rills of an unpleasant fluid forming on its glossy flanks,
to run down and flow and flow away into the desert to be dried up.

"I don't think we'll want to be around for the next few weeks," Borden
said heavily. "We'll go back and fix up the ship."

Then Ellen mentioned Sattell's name for the first time in days.

"How about Sattell?"

"We outran him on the way here," Borden said moodily. "But I think
he'll come on. He'll want to find out if we're dead. Not knowing what
the thing--the white spot--was, I think he'll figure that either we'll
be sent back with help, or killed. If he gets to where he can see the
white spot, and we haven't started back with friends, he'll be sure
we're dead. Then he'll go back and start to fix up the ship himself. I
think we'll meet him on the way."

And they did. The second day out from what was now an oasis instead of
a white spot, they saw Sattell's car headed in their direction as a
moving gleam of golden reflected sunlight.

Jerry ran their car off the road to a hiding place behind a dune. He
and Borden took posts behind the sand dune's tip. Sattell came racing
at a hundred and fifty miles an hour, raising a long plume of sand dust
behind him.

Borden and Jerry fired together--two thin pencil rods of flame from the
golden-metal weapons. Sattell's ground car ran past them, crossing the
highway just a foot from the rock. The treads of the car disintegrated.
The car sped on, slid, and rolled clumsily, three separate times. Then
it stopped.

The oval side window turned and Sattell came crawling out. He had
a golden-metal weapon now. He must have searched feverishly in the
shambles of one of the two forts to find a weapon that still would
operate. He swung it frenziedly in their direction. He ran toward them,
screaming hate. He stumbled.

His weapon was firing, but the fire was short. He fell on it. Into its
flame.

And the ship's log and the star maps were in the ground car Borden and
Jerry had disabled.