Ellen protested, "But what could be so hopeless? If the pets survived--"

"My guess doesn't run to what they fled from, Ellen. But I think it's
the white spot that flung that heat-ray at us. And I think that after
all the people in the ground cars were dead, winter came, and covered
up the vehicles with snow. Spring came, and floods washed mud along
the highway and partly covered up the cars with mud. That went on for
years and years and years. The pets that had been put out of the cars
did survive. They were probably arctic animals to begin with, judging
by their fur. And they have a language of sorts. They yearned for their
masters. That was instinct. But they told their children--pups, what
have you--about the masters they had lost. And one day a space-ship
came bumbling down out of the sky and landed with a crash--and Jerry
got out of it. And he was like their masters. So they have adopted us
as their masters. And so--that's my guess. All of it."

"Dee!" cried Ellen softly. "How terrible!"

"You think, sir," asked Jerry, "that they were running away from
something on the white spot?"

"_We_ did," said Borden. "We had to. Maybe they had to, too."

"But what do you think it is?"

"That," Borden told him, "is something I hope we don't have to find
out. Right now I suggest that we get some sleep."

And presently there was silence inside the _Danaë_, while the night
grew deeper and darker outside.

There was no moon on this planet, but there were many stars in the sky.
In the starlight the furry bipeds waited patiently about the hull for
dawn when the humans would come out again. Some of them slept. Some sat
erect, blinking meditatively. One or two walked about from time to time.

Occasionally one or more seemed to think there was a sound somewhere.
They would look intently in the suspected direction until assured there
was nothing amiss. They were much like dogs back on Earth, waiting
hopefully for their masters to get up and be ready to pay attention to
them again.

Hours later, the sky to the east paled. There was a chill mist to the
northward, toward the polar cap. The ground in that direction glistened
with the wet of condensation when the sky grew brighter. But here, so
near the desert which save for the white spot covered the planet from
pole to pole, there was no such excess of moisture. The ground here was
damp because of seepage.

In a little while an eerie half-light spread over this curious world.
The furry creatures sat up and scratched themselves luxuriously, and
stretched in human fashion. Some of them scuffled amiably, tumbling
over and over each other as if to warm themselves by exercise.

A little longer, and the sun rose. And shortly after that there
were clankings when Borden unfastened the air-lock and came out.
Immediately he was the center of a throng of the bipeds, lying flat
on their backs with their stubby trunks waving urgently in the air,
waiting to be scratched.

He scratched them gravely, one by one. Then Jerry came out and the
process had to be repeated. The sun was low, and Jerry's shadow was
thirty feet long on the sparsely covered ground.

Relieved of the bipeds' attentions, Borden moved off to one side.
He had one of the stubby, golden-colored light metal weapons in his
hand. He examined it carefully, again. There was a sort of stock, and
a barrel three inches in diameter with an extremely tiny opening at
its end. There was a round knob on one side. Borden unscrewed the knob
a little, pointed the weapon carefully away from the _Danaë_ and the
furry creatures, and shifted the knob.

There was no noise. But what seemed to be a rod of flame shot out of
the tiny muzzle. Where it touched the ground there was a burst of steam
and flame and smoke from the scorched vegetation.

Borden turned it off quickly and aimed at a greater distance. He could
not discover any limit to its range, in which respect it was a better
weapon than the blaster of human manufacture he wore at his hip. It
would be decidedly undesirable for Sattell to get hold of a weapon like
this!

He went into the ship and when he came out again Ellen was with him.
They put the golden-metal weapons in the ground car. They brought out
food. Ellen looked uneasily in the back, where she had heard there were
skeletons, but they were gone. A mound of loosened soil nearby told
where. Borden had buried them, together.

"All set, Jerry?" asked Borden. "I've locked the ship so Sattell can't
get in. As I told you, we're going to disable those other wagons and
track down Sattell. If we can capture him reasonably intact, we'll put
a cardiograph on him and ask him loaded questions about the ship's log
and star maps. His pulse should change enough to enable us to track it
down. But first we wreck those wagons!"

Jerry made gestures to his furry friends. They gesticulated back
extravagantly. He climbed in the vehicle. Borden freed its tiller and
Jerry drove.