The planet did not look promising, but they had no choice. When a
ship's drive blows between star-systems, it has to be fixed. If metal
parts must be recast and machined, and burned-out wiring has to be
pieced together and insulated by hand, the job takes literally months.
And if, then, getting home is a matter of more months of journeying
with a drive that still limps, while coughing and cutting off for
seconds or until it is tinkered with--why, the traveler has to find
some way to renew his food supply.

It is for such occasions that the Interstellar Code requires all ships
to carry an emergency kit with seeds and agricultural directions.

The _Danaë_, therefore, limped to the nearest Sol-type star to hunt
for a planet on which to plant some crops. There was Borden and his
wife, Ellen. There was Sattell, whom they would be glad to part with
when they got home. There was Jerry, who was diffident enough to be
tolerable in spite of his lack of years. They were all at the forward
vision-port when they approached the only possible planet.

"It's fifty million miles out," Borden said. "A bit on the hot side.
But the sun is smaller than Sol, so it may not be too bad. At least
there are polar caps--small ones."

"No seas," Sattell said. "Pretty barren."

The others said nothing. It did not look at all encouraging.

The _Danaë_ went in on a spiral descending orbit. Borden looked for
other planets. He found a gas giant with a high-speed rotation. It was
flattened, oblate. He checked it with the two polar caps on the nearer
world and said worriedly:

"If the ecliptic's where I think it is, there'll be no seasons to speak
of. I was hoping this planet was near its equinox, because the ice-caps
are so nearly the same size."

Ellen said absorbedly, "I think I see a tinge of olive-green around
that ice-cap. The smaller one."

"Probably vegetation," agreed her husband. "But I don't see any more.
The place does look to be mostly desert."

They went in closer, circling as they headed for atmosphere.

Then Jerry said diffidently: "Could that be ice, there?"