Ellen brought out the talkie. She turned it on and said crisply:
"Jerry, Sattell's disappeared. Come in please."

Jerry did not answer. Borden paced up and down, frowning and thinking
of ever more disastrous possibilities.

"Bring the talkie into the ship," he said presently. "We'll hook it to
an outside aerial. Jerry won't be traveling with his turned on. But
he's bound to call us eventually."

He took the talkie from her, carried it inside the ship, and plugged
it in there. In minutes a speaker in the control room was emitting the
nondescript hissing which was the random electronic noises made by
metal objects nearby. The ship itself, for one.

"I'm going to look in Sattell's cabin," said Borden grimly.

That was drastic action. On a space journey privacy is at once so
difficult and so essential that nobody on a space expedition ever
enters another's private cabin. To look in Sattell's cabin was a great
violation of normal rules of conduct. But it had to be done now.

Borden went in the cabin and through Sattell's possessions. He came out
looking sick.

"I found something," he told Ellen. "When we were coming in I looked
at that white spot through a telescope. I didn't see anything worth
noting, but I snapped the telecamera out of pure habit. Then I forgot
it. But Sattell didn't. He made this."

He showed her a photographic print. Sattell had made it from the infra
red image on the full color photograph. It was an enlargement, showing
more detail than Borden had seen with the naked eye. There were shadows
on this print, the shadows of structures. There were buildings rising
from the white. There were towers. There was a city on the white spot
from which a heat-ray had been projected at the _Danaë_ out in space!

Quite as important, the threadlike lines they had noticed were
here plainly highways leading away from it. One led north, judging
directions from the shadows. It reached toward the polar ice-cap near
which the small space-ship was grounded.

"If Sattell really expects us to kill him," said Borden, "he could
have headed for that highway. He might expect to make a deal with our
enemies by selling us out. Even if they killed him out of hand, the
fact that he was an alien would make them hunt for us. So he could
figure that he might make friends, but even if he didn't he would be
sure to ruin us. A win for him either way."

Ellen paled a little. "And the drive's pulled down and Jerry's gone."

"So there's nothing to do but wait and see," said Borden.

He tried to work on the space-drive. All its parts were spread out
on the drive room floor. When they'd repaired it before, it had been
so thoroughly fused that a part looked good even if repaired to the
accuracy of a bent wax candle straightened out by hand.

Now the repairs looked very bad. It seemed incredible that anything so
clumsily made should have worked. But Borden couldn't keep his mind on
it.

"Just on the off chance, Ellen," he said abruptly, "you will not leave
the ship by yourself. We'd better replace the lock-door fastening, too.
If we do have visitors from the city on the white spot, that won't stop
them. But it might keep them from taking us off-guard."