Borden said drily, "From space. Maybe as a spore of its own deadly
race. Or it might be intelligent enough for space-travel. It should be!
It knew enough to make a sun-mirror of itself to destroy us! It also
knew enough to make itself into straining cables to pull ground cars
like this apart to get at the people inside."

Ellen shuddered. "But that must be wrong, Dee! A creature like that
would cover a whole planet! It would consume every living thing and
become itself the planet's surface or its skin."

"But this planet is mostly desert," Borden reminded her. "It may
be that there was just one oasis on which a civilization started.
Sun-power was all it had. It would make use of that. It would find the
ice-caps at its poles, and build highways to them to haul water to
extend itself. Its people would delight in such strangeness as running
streams, like the one we saw. If something hellish came out of space,
landed, and attacked that oasis, the thing would follow the survivors
of its first attacks along the highways by which they retreated. When
they built forts, they would congregate in numbers it could not resist
attacking. And--"

Jerry glanced up. His face was white, and he looked sick.

"I recall, sir," he murmured, "that you said Sattell knew too much.
I believe you guess the 'thing' you are talking about absorbed the
knowledge of the people it consumed. Is that right? And if it should
absorb more from Sattell, and through him know about us--"

"My guess," said Borden, "is that it knew we were in a space-ship.
In one there are always relays working, machines running, things
happening--as is always the case where there are humans. Where there
are living beings. Such happenings can be detected. I also believe this
'thing' can tell when it can reach the living, and when it can't. When
it can reach them, it undoubtedly moves to devour them. When it can't,
it tries to destroy them--as it tried with us. That may be because of
its own intelligence, or it may be because of the knowledge gained
through what it has consumed.

"That's why I don't intend to let Sattell be consumed by it! He knows
how the _Danaë's_ drive works and how it should be repaired. He knows
how to read the log and the maps he stole. Just as a precaution, I'm
not going to let that 'thing' in the white spot gain the knowledge
that there is a planet called Earth with life all over it, on every
continent, and in the deeps of the seas. _If_ the 'thing' in the
white spot were to find out that there is such a place, and _if_ it
is intelligent enough to wipe out a civilized race on this planet, it
might be tempted to take to space again. Or at least to send, say, part
of itself!"