She took him inside. Sattell had carried away about most of the food
in the current-use freezer, and the storage lockers were nearly empty,
but she prepared an ample meal for him. She couldn't even guess at the
significance of what he'd found, but she knew there was meaning to it
if only it could be found.

Jerry was eating contentedly and telling Ellen about his journey with
the furry bipeds when Borden came in. He went to a tool locker, got out
a small torch, and went out again.

Considerably later the outer lock door clanked. Then Borden came back
into the cabin where Jerry was still talking with his mouth full.

"I'm beginning to get an idea of what's happened on this planet,"
Borden said grimly. "Jerry, was there any sign of a highway where you
found this bunch of wagons?"

Jerry considered: "The front part of this one," he offered finally,
"was buried deeper than the back. It went into a sort of hill. And
under the wheels there was flat stone. It could have been a highway,
buried under the mud that partly covered up what you call the wagons,
sir."

Borden nodded. "I've brazed the steering tiller of that wagon so it
can't be steered," he observed. "And I've replaced the lock fastener so
Sattell can't break into the ship. We can sleep tonight. Tomorrow we'll
go over to those wagons and disable them all. And then, in this wagon
you brought, we'll hunt Sattell down. I have an idea he'd better not
have a wagon of his own. It might not be good for us."

Jerry asked rather breathlessly, "What did you think of the skeletons,
sir? I left them exactly as they were." He hesitated. "I thought they
were a lot like human skeletons. Is that right?"

"Quite right," agreed Borden. "There is an extra rib on each side, and
three fewer vertebrae, and their joints were a little different, but
they were people, as I interpret the word. Were there skeletons in all
the wagons you entered?"

"Yes, sir."

Ellen said impatiently, "What did you find out, Dee?"

"I guessed," Borden told her. "But I'd bet on my guesses. For one
thing, the group in this vehicle was a family. One was taller and
stockier than the others. I could be wrong, but I think it was the
male--the father. There is a slightly smaller, slightly slenderer
skeleton there, too. It has jewelry on it. And there are two smaller
skeletons." He took a deep breath. "The small skeletons were laid out
neatly, comfortably. The next to largest skeleton was with them. The
stocky skeleton.... He'd killed himself, Jerry?"

"The weapons make holes like that, sir," said Jerry. "I tried one on
the ground. Even in the ground cars where there were no weapons, one
skeleton was always like that, with a hole in the skull."

"Yes," said Borden. "They must have loaned the weapons to each other
for that purpose."

Ellen protested: "But Dee! What _was_ it?"

"I've a very complete guess," Borden said evenly. "It includes Jerry's
furry friends. They act like domestic animals, like pets with an
inbred, passionate desire to be approved of by--people. Dogs are like
that. You agree, Jerry?"

"Oh, yes, sir!"

"If a party of human beings, in flight from something dreadful, had
come to some place in the arctic, on Earth, where they couldn't go any
farther, where the wives and families they had with them had no chance
of survival because of the thing from which they fled, what would they
do?"

Jerry said awkwardly, "If I may say so, sir, it does look just like
that!"

Borden went on without apparent emotion, "The men of those families
would know there was no escape. The odds are that they'd put their
family dogs out of the ground cars, because they might live. But if the
situation was absolutely hopeless they might not want their families to
suffer--what they'd first tried to escape. So the children would die
painlessly. So would the women and then the men would kill themselves.
Possibly, anyhow. Or they might go back and fight. Here, it seems, they
killed themselves."