An hour later an almost unbearable bright light appeared in the
distance, moving toward the _Danaë_. Jerry had carried a handflash,
of course, but nothing equal to this. Judging by the wavering of the
light, it was mounted on a vehicle of some sort.

Ellen's voice said wearily for the thousandth time:

"Jerry, Sattell's vanished. Come in, please."

"You can stop that, Ellen," Borden told her. "The call's answered. It
looks as if the real natives of this planet are coming to call."

He shrugged and turned to the furry creature which now was inside the
ship. He'd bandaged its wound--a clean deep puncture in the flesh of
its arm. He led it to the air-lock.

"Get going," he said curtly. "Your masters are coming. They won't like
it that you've made friends with us. Scat!"

But the creature only blinked at the approaching light while its fur
flattened. It went bouncing out and toward the swaying, lurching
approaching light, racing joyfully to meet it.

Borden stared. Then he saw that other figures were about the
approaching light beam--other furry, dancing, leaping creatures. They
ran and gesticulated happily about the advancing vehicle.

It didn't make sense. But nothing did make sense on this planet!

Borden waited in the air-lock with Ellen behind him and a blaster
in his hand. In the darkness the vehicle came lurching onward with
surprising quiet. Its light swayed, and it had moved as if to turn,
when Borden threw on the outside lights.

A semicircle of the sparse green vegetation sprang into brilliance.
Borden and his wife were relatively in shadow. They could see the
vehicle clearly.

It was nearly thirty feet long and rolled on two curious devices
which were not caterpillar treads, but not exactly wheels, either. A
loping, wildly excited horde of bipeds--including the one Borden had
bandaged--surrounded it, making way for it but escorting it in wild
enthusiasm.

The thing was caked with dirt. It was not merely dusty. It was packed
with dried clay, as if it had been buried and only recently exhumed.
A round blister at the front which might be plastic had been partly
cleared of dirt, but there were still areas in which clay clung and
made it opaque.

It curved about and swung parallel to the ship. It stopped within
twenty feet of the air-lock. Then an oval window--which looked as if
somebody had scratched caked clay off it with a stick--turned endwise,
quite impossibly, and became a door. The door slid aside. The interior
of the vehicle was dark.

Borden held his blaster ready. He wouldn't shoot first, but there _had_
been a heat-ray flung at the _Danaë_!...