Ellen gasped suddenly from the port: "Dee! Natives! They've seen Jerry!
They're coming close!"

Borden moved quickly to look over her shoulder. Sattell took a second
port. They stared out at the strange world about the _Danaë_.

Jerry had kicked a hole in the sod and picked up a bit of it to examine
closely. And, not sixty yards from him, three creatures were regarding
him with intense curiosity.

They were furry bipeds. They stood as erect as penguins, not bending
forward in the least. They had enormously long arms which almost
reached to the ground beside them. From what should have been their
chins, single tentacles drooped--like the trunk of an elephant, except
that it was beneath the mouth opening instead of above it. They stared
at Jerry with manifest mounting excitement, making gestures to each
other with their trunks and arms.

Borden moved to warn Jerry through the outside speaker. But Jerry
looked up directly at the creatures. He spoke to them quietly.

At the sound of his voice their manner changed. Borden thought
irrelevantly of the way a dog flattens his ears when his master speaks
to him. But these creatures flattened all their fur. Jerry spoke
again. He waved his hand. He glanced at the _Danaë_'s port and nodded
reassuringly.

The three creatures moved hesitantly toward him. Two of them stopped
some forty yards distant. One came on. Suddenly it wriggled with an
odd effect of embarrassment. The flattening of its fur became more
noticeable.

A fourth creature of the same kind came loping over a rise in the
ground. It used its long arms to balance itself as an ape might do,
but an ape does not run upright. This creature did. It saw Jerry and
stopped short, staring.

The creature which had advanced toward Jerry appeared to be more and
more embarrassed. Jerry moved to meet it. When he was ten feet away the
creature lay down on the ground and rolled over on its back. It waved
its trunk wildly, as if supplicating approval.

Jerry bent over and scratched the furry body as if he knew exactly what
it wanted. The two others who had been its companions loped forward,
plunged to the ground, rolled over on their backs and waved their
trunks as wildly as the first. Jerry scratched them.

The fourth creature, which had stared wide-eyed, suddenly waved its
arms and burst into a headlong rush. Its haste seemed frantic. It
scuttled frenziedly, made a leap, turned over as it soared, landed on
its back two yards from Jerry and slid to his feet.

When Jerry scratched it, it wriggled ecstatically. Its trunk waved as
though it were experiencing infinite bliss.

Borden said slowly, "Something on this planet tried to burn us down
with a heat-ray not half an hour ago. We land--and this happens! What
sort of place is this, anyhow?"