XXVI

THE BORROWED HAND-CAR


It was hot and the walking was hard. They took to the path between the
tracks, but even that was far from being an ideal surface. Now and then
a sleeper, longer than the rest, protruded to trip unwary feet and for
long stretches at a time they walked over ballast. When they had been
on their way only a few minutes a locomotive whistle sounded in the
distance behind them and Jimmy was for turning back. It might be, he
thought, a train to Greenbank. But Dud destroyed his hope.

“It’s that branch line train,” he said. “The one we didn’t wait for.”

“I’d like to push it off the track,” muttered Jimmy. “If it hadn’t been
for that we wouldn’t be in this fix.”

After another ten minutes conversation ceased altogether. They were
too hot and tired for talking. The track, with strange perversity,
ran for a long way through a cut and what breeze there was failed to
reach them. They watched eagerly for the mile-posts at first, but they
were unusually far apart, they concluded, and they soon got tired
of looking for them. A wooden trestle made the going easier while it
lasted, for there were planks to walk on, but it ended all too soon and
they were back on cinders and broken stone again. Near the end of the
third mile they retired to the ditch at one side to let a long freight
trundle past. Jimmy morosely observed that, of course, the pesky thing
had to be going in the wrong direction!

They reached a small station at about half-past two and made an assault
on the water tank in the little room. Perhaps fortunately, the water
had not seen any ice that day. They rested a few minutes and then went
on again. A hundred yards down the track Jimmy uttered an exclamation
and Dud turned to find him pointing dramatically at a hand-car reposing
on a couple of ties laid at right angles to the rails at one side of
the way.

“What do you know about that?” asked Jimmy in awed tones.

“What about it?” asked Dud.

“Why, you chump, all we’ve got to do is slide that on the track and get
to Greenbank in no time at all!”

“And get arrested for swiping railroad property!”

“We won’t swipe it; we’ll just borrow it,” said the other indignantly.

“I guess,” responded Dud dubiously, “it’s harder to work one of those
things than it is to walk. Besides, we couldn’t lift it onto the rails.”

“I’ll bet we could. And all you have to do is just work those handles
up and down like a pump, you on one side and I on the other. It may be
hard, but it’ll be a mighty pleasant change!”

“We’re certain to get in trouble if we try that, Jimmy. Come on. We’ve
done half the distance, I guess, already.”

“Oh, come on!” Jimmy was already struggling with the hand-car. “We can
lift it easy enough, Dud. It isn’t heavy. Here, we’ll toss this junk
off.” And Jimmy ruthlessly slid a box of spikes and some tools to the
ground. “Give us a lift, Dud!”

Dud hesitated an instant longer and then went to Jimmy’s assistance.
The car was lumbersome, but they had no great difficulty in trundling
it along the ties and then swinging it to the rails. Fortunately, a
bend in the tracks hid them from the little station.

“Climb aboard!” said Jimmy joyfully. “Bend your back, Dud! Let her
flicker!”

She didn’t “flicker” much at first, though, and it proved to be surely
a case of “bend your back”! They did a good deal of grunting and
perspiring before the hand-car found its gait. After that it wasn’t
hard to keep it going, except that the continual raising and lowering
of the bars soon began to tire arms and shoulders and backs. But
Jimmy, although the perspiration was soon trickling down his nose, was
full of encouragement.

“There’s another mile-post coming, Dud! Say, I’ll bet we’re making
fifteen miles an hour, eh?”

“More like ten,” panted Dud. “Wish we’d come to a grade so we could
quit a minute!”

“Bound to be one soon, I guess. Keep it up! We’re doing finely!”

And there was one soon. It began a few rods beyond, but, instead of
being a down-grade it was the other sort, and for the next ten minutes
they had their work cut out for them! Dud was all for abandoning the
hand-car and taking to their legs again, but Jimmy pointed out that
when they had once reached the top of the hill they’d be able to coast
down the other side of it. But Jimmy was wrong about that, for when the
grade did come to an end only a level track awaited them. Still, after
propelling that thing up a quarter-mile rise, even level track was a
vast relief, and they let the car run a minute while they dropped the
handles and mopped their streaming faces.

“What time is it now?” asked Jimmy, easing a wilted collar about his
neck. They had long since removed their jackets and hats and bundled
them at their feet.

“Two minutes to three,” answered Dud. “How much farther is it, do you
think?”

“Only about two miles, I guess. Say, suppose we come to a station?
We’ll have to beat it by in a hurry, eh?”

“Either that or let this thing go. But there isn’t likely to be another
station before Greenbank, I guess. Let’s hit her up again.”

They hit her up and overtook another mile-post and were arguing
breathlessly as to the distance they had covered when a sudden roar and
clatter down the track behind them put the question out of mind.

“_Train!_” yelled Dud, who was facing the rear. “Stop her, Jimmy!”

Jimmy threw his body across his ascending bar, after one glance behind
him. A short blast of warning came from the approaching locomotive, and
then another and another. The hand-car slowed and stopped and before it
had ceased its momentum two badly scared boys were on the ground beside
it.

“We’ve got――to get――her off!” cried Dud. “Quick, Jimmy!”

On came the train, still whistling, but now they could hear the grating
of brake-shoes as the engineer put on the air. Dud had his end of the
hand-car clear of the rails, but at Jimmy’s end the wheels were caught.

“Give me a lift――here!” panted Jimmy, and Dud sprang to his aid.

Neither dared look back up the track, but they could feel the rails
pulse as the locomotive bore down upon them, while the screech of
locked wheels was deafening. It seemed minutes before they managed to
wrench the hand-car from the track, although it was in reality but a
matter of seconds from the first warning blast to the instant that,
pushing the hand-car down the slope beside the railway, the two boys
literally threw themselves after it. There was a roar, a maelstrom of
dust, the sound of releasing brake-shoes and the freight, gathering
speed again, rushed by them.

_Clank-clank! Thump-thump!_ Car after car went past while Dud and
Jimmy, white-faced, breathless and trembling from their exertions,
crouched in a tangle of bushes beside the half-overturned hand-car,
deafened, choked and blinded with dust, shudderingly grateful for their
escape.