XXVII

THE OLD OAK


OH, it was a funny world, fast enough, John knew that. He’d known it
in fits and starts all his life, but somehow the last ten days had
emphasized the fact more fully.

Ten days! To John it seemed a lifetime since he, in company with Corin,
had stepped upon Whortley platform, had taken his seat in the rickety
bus that had conveyed him at its own shaky pace to the White Cottage.
A lifetime! And yet reason, that firm indicator of common-sense,
emphasized to the contrary. Anyhow, a lifetime or ten days, the time
had been long enough for him to know his mind. He had known it for
weeks past. But for her? There was the question. And it was one which
common-sense, modesty, and every other thought but his own wish,
answered firmly in the negative. He had seen her precisely seven times,
and two out of the number obviously went for nothing, seeing that the
first time she had been totally unaware of his presence, and the third
time, if she had seen him, it would have been merely as one of a small
congregation of worshippers, his individuality entirely unnoticed.

Therefore, argued John, if what he so ardently desired was, by any
possible manner of means, to be brought about by an increased number of
meetings, the sooner he set about increasing them the better. Obviously
the proper, the correct thing to do, after lunching at a house, was to
pay a respectful call upon one’s hostess. He had no need to consult an
etiquette book to remind himself of that fact.

True, he had lunched on Thursday, and this was only Saturday, therefore
the call might be considered somewhat precipitate. But, argued John,
endeavouring to find some plausible excuse for the precipitancy of the
call, with the practical certainty in view of meeting the family in the
cloisters after Mass the following day, the most desirable course, the
only correct and proper course, was to call that very afternoon.

No sooner thought than decided on. John left the White Cottage,
betaking himself in the direction of the church, from which he
intended to drag a possibly reluctant Corin, and insist on his mounting
the hill in his company.

But his intentions and his insistence came to nought.

A dusty, untidy, and wholly absorbed Corin utterly refused to accompany
him. Objection number one, it was too soon to pay a call; objection
number two, it was Saturday afternoon, the one afternoon in the week on
which he enjoyed solitude; objection number three, would John kindly
look at the discovery he had just made, and then see if he--Corin--was
likely to leave it for the purpose of paying a merely conventional
visit.

John looked. Corin was, at the moment, on _terra firma_, be it stated.

On either side of where the altar would have stood, had there been
one, and some five feet or so from the ground, the wall was partially
uncovered. A border in brilliant blue, red, black, and yellow was
disclosed,--a bold, simple pattern. Below it, in the upper loops of
a painted curtain, were animals,--dragons, twisted of tail, forked
of tongue; a leveret, a deer, and a fox, each of these last courant,
to use the parlance of heraldry. For the most part the animals were
washed in boldly in red; two of the dragons were a gorgeous yellow.

“I am certain,” said Corin enthusiastically, “that they are after
Geraldius Cambrensis. It’s the best find of the lot. I’m not coming
with you. Nothing, no power on earth, can drag me from this till dark.
If you must go today, make my excuses.”

Therefore John departed.

The excuse was valid. It also gave a _raison d’être_ for his somewhat
precipitate call. Miss Delancey was interested in the discoveries in
the church. It would be merely friendly to let her know of this new
discovery as soon as possible. Therefore, I say, John departed. Of
course he grumbled a moment or so before departing. Equally of course
the grumbling was of a merely perfunctory nature.

And then he turned into the sunshine.