WHEN the Delancey affair had been brought to a conclusion, it was not
uninteresting to note the various opinions set forth regarding its
happy termination.

Biddy, at once autocrat and indulger of at least three generations of
juvenile Delanceys, maintained, and stoutly, it was entirely due to
her own prayers to her patron saint. She took, so to speak, a monopoly
of the business as far as any human agency was concerned. But, as one
cannot, with any degree of modesty, parade one’s private devotions to
the world at large, it was hardly probable that this view of the matter
would be universal.

The village in general, with the exception of Mrs. Trimwell, laid the
whole credit at the feet of Lady Mary Delancey. Doubtless this was
on account of the wave of relief which had surged over it, and which
exalted her ladyship, for the time being at least, to a pinnacle of
almost giddy height.

Mrs. Trimwell had her own private views on the matter. What they were,
will, no doubt, be realized later.

Corin Elmore believed the whole thing due to karma, though it is true
that this particular arrangement of karma puzzled him not a little.

John Mortimer, while maintaining on the whole a strictly neutral
attitude, allowed his opinion of the credit due to sway slightly, if
it swayed at all, in the direction of his sister Elizabeth. And in so
doing, he swayed nearer the mark, if you will believe me, than the
majority of folk with opinions on the subject.

Father Maloney was heard to announce that “surely to goodness the fella
himself might be allowed a taste of the credit.” The “fella” was David
Delancey. But more of him anon. Father Maloney made the announcement
with a twinkle in his eye, and a slight exchange of glances with Lady
Mary. That exchange of glances puzzled more than one of those who had
happened to surprise it. Its meaning, however, was never fathomed.
There was no question but that Lady Mary and the priest were past
masters in keeping their own counsel when they chose. He would be a
bold man who put any question savouring of impertinence to Lady Mary.
For my part, I had sooner face a whole battery of artillery than have
Lady Mary’s tortoiseshell-rimmed lorgnettes turned slowly upon me, her
grey eyes glinting through them with steely courtesy. The courtesy was
never absent, you may be sure, but then neither--on occasions--was the
steeliness. Nor would it be well, if you wished to retain the smallest
atom of self-respect, to question Father Maloney unduly. That soft
tongue and speech of his could shrivel your complacency to the likeness
of a withered leaf when you deserved it. And you may be very sure that,
when they did shrivel it, you were left in no manner of doubt as to
your deserts in the matter.

Lady Mary herself never ventured the smallest hint of an opinion as
to whom the credit was due. In fact from first to last she kept a
dignified silence on the whole affair, save when sheer necessity
demanded speech from her. Her silence and dignity alone prevented it
from sinking to melodrama, and truth obliges me to confess that it
had more than once a distinctly suspicious flavour of that obnoxious
quality.

But this is beginning at the wrong end of the skein, a proceeding which
will indubitably result in a most fearsome tangle. Therefore, with your
permission, I will break off and start anew.