It was cool in the church, in marked contrast to the heat without.
Being Saturday afternoon, John and Corin had the place to themselves.
Corin, up aloft, chiselled with vigour, or with suspended breath,
as the exigencies of the work demanded; John, on the overturned
wheelbarrow, was lost in thought.

Suddenly a slight sound made him raise his head. For a moment, for one
brief instant, he still remained in the past, almost believing his
thoughts to have materialized before him.

In the shadow of the little Norman doorway stood a white-robed figure.
Still half dreaming he looked to see her take holy water from the
stoup. Then actualities rushed upon him. His heart jumped; pleasure,
undeniable radiant pleasure, shone from his face. He got to his feet.

“Oh,” said Rosamund perceiving him. And she stopped, half hesitating.

John made her a little courtly bow.

“I thought,” said she smiling, “I should have found the place deserted.
It is Saturday afternoon.”

“It is deserted,” John assured her, “but for me and Corin.” He
indicated the indefatigably industrious figure aloft.

She smiled.

“I came,” said she, “with the intention of having a private view, a
little secret examination of the paintings Mr. Elmore was uncovering.”

“Oh!” said John. And then dubiously, “The uncovered paintings are, as
you see, at a goodly height above us.”

“Yes.” Her voice was regretful.

John heard the regret.

“I wonder--” he began.

“I _could_,” she assured him, with swift realization of his unspoken
thought.

He glanced towards the ladder.

“Really?” he queried.

She nodded. “Really. I am sure I could.”

“Come then,” said John.

They advanced towards the ladder. At the foot thereof she paused.

“Shan’t we be disturbing him?” she queried.

“Not a bit of it,” laughed John. “He’ll merely be flattered at your
interest. He’ll adore an audience.”

The situation had for him the hint of an adventure. To have told her
curtly,--or suavely, for that matter,--that it was impossible for her
to see those paintings would have resulted in her leaving the church.
There could have been no possible excuse for her remaining. This
thought justified him in suggesting the venture. Naturally it was an
infinitely greater venture in his eyes than in Rosamund’s. That is
probably understood without need of my mentioning the fact.

John, in advance, reached the first platform; turned, took her hand
firmly in his, and drew her to safety. A second time was this feat
accomplished in like manner.

“Hullo!” exclaimed Corin, surprised at the double apparition.

“Allow me,” said John, “to present my friend, Mr. Elmore. Miss Delancey
wanted to see the paintings.”

“Therein,” quoth Corin bowing, “she shows her judgment. Behold!” He
waved his chisel towards the wall.

“Oh!” breathed Rosamund. Just that, and no more.

Corin hugged himself with delight.

“Isn’t it gorgeous!” he ejaculated. “Isn’t it superb, adorable, and
dreamy! And heaven knows what more this plaster hides. The unutterable
Philistines who smeared and daubed it over from the light of day!”

“Is it not,” suggested Rosamund, “a matter for thankfulness that they
did merely smear and daub? It is possible, it is quite conceivable,
that they might have scraped.”

Corin shuddered.

“Don’t suggest such a possibility,” he implored. “I’ll confess my
thankfulness for the daubing.”

She barely heard him. She was engrossed in the work before her,--red,
black, turquoise blue, and crimson, she revelled in its colour. Daring
enough it was in parts, in others almost crude in its simplicity. She
was drawn, as John had been drawn, back into the bygone ages. Their
atmosphere enfolded her, enwrapped her. She saw in the work before
her, almost without realizing her thoughts, the interpretation of the
mind of the painter. Here was nothing petty, nothing niggled; it was
frank, simple, childlike. It was extraordinarily unselfconscious.
Therein lay its subtle charm. There was no intricacy of expression;
nothing laboured; almost, one might say, nothing preconceived.

“Well?” queried John at last.

“Oh,” she cried, turning towards him, “it’s--it’s so deliciously
simple, so utterly unstudied. It’s almost untutored in its crudeness,
and yet--I wonder wherein exactly the charm lies?”

“In its simplicity,” returned Corin promptly. “Whoever painted this
worked for pure pleasure. There’s--well, there’s so extraordinarily
little hint of even the thought of an audience. Do you know what I
mean?”

“Isn’t it,” she said laughing, “the entire expression of ‘when the
world was so new and all’?”

“_Exactly!_” cried Corin. “In those eight little words Kipling carried
us back into a clean fresh world with its face all washed and smiling;
when we laughed for the mere joy of laughter; when we wept if we wanted
to weep--only I believe we didn’t want to; when the tiresome stupid
phrases ‘What will people think? What will people say?’ were unknown in
the language; when we danced, and ate, and played in the sunshine for
the mere joy of living.”

“Only that?” she queried, her eyebrows raised.

“Only that,” said Corin firmly. “Kipling is a glorious pagan.”

“Oh!” She was dubious. “I wonder.”

“And this painter,” pursued Corin unheeding, “splashed his colours on
the walls, his blacks, his reds, his blues, his lines and curves, and
he laughed as he worked, and I think he sang too, and he didn’t care
one jot what people thought about him or his painting. He loved it, and
so--” He broke off with a gesture.

“But,” quoth she demurely, “I suppose you don’t intend to infer that
_he_ was a pagan?”

“Oh, you can _call_ him what you like,” returned Corin magnanimously,
“I only know that his mind was as untrammelled as his work.”

“I see.” She shot him a little quizzical glance.

Ten minutes later, standing once more on the floor of the church, she
said to John, smiling:

“I suppose Mr. Elmore considers your mind, and my mind, and, for the
matter of that, the mind of every Catholic in a kind of strait-jacket?”

“You’re not far beside the mark,” returned John laughing.

He went with her to the door. A moment she stood there; and, turning,
looked back into the church.

“After all, it’s sad,” she said.

“I know,” replied John.

“It’s--it’s the sense of loss.”

“I know,” said John again, “the sense of loss, in spite of the faint
fragrance that still lingers.”

She nodded, then turned towards the sunshine without.

“By the way,” said she suddenly reminiscent, “I left a note for you at
the White Cottage. My grandmother would be very pleased if you and Mr.
Elmore would lunch with us tomorrow at one o’clock. She would like to
thank you in person for your intervention on our behalf the other day.
Can you come?”

“With the greatest pleasure in the world,” returned John. And there is
no question but that his heart was in his voice.