VIII

AN OLD PRIEST


FATHER MALONEY was in a mood, which, it must be confessed, was
distinctly unfavourable to his peace of mind. And not only his peace
of mind, but his appetite had suffered considerably thereby. Cold
corned beef and plum tart had been so much sawdust between his lips,
flavourless and exceeding dry. Even his after-luncheon pipe failed to
rouse him to a cheerier outlook on life in general. Now, when the joys
of tobacco had ceased to woo him, matters had, indeed, come to a pretty
pass. Anastasia, his housekeeper, clearing away the débris of the meal,
eyed him solicitously.

“You’re not ill, Father?” she asked, her black eyes snapping anxiety in
his direction.

For a moment he roused himself.

“Not at all, not at all,” he responded with a show of briskness, only
to relapse once more into gloom.

Anastasia shook her head.

“It’ll be that moidering business up to the Castle, I’m thinking,”
quoth she to herself, her lips tightening in a manner that would have
augured ill for the author of the business had he been anywhere within
sighting distance.

Returning to the kitchen she addressed a fervent, and, it must be
confessed, slightly authoritative decade of the rosary to Our Blessed
Lady, before beginning to wash up plates and dishes. To her mind
_something_ had to be done. Herein her mind and that of old Biddy the
nurse up at the Castle were distinctly in accord.

For one hour--two hours, perhaps--Father Maloney sat in his old
armchair. During that time he endeavoured, with some degree of success,
to say his office with attention. Then he once more lapsed into gloomy
retrospection and anticipation.

Since midday the world--the pleasant, material, sunny world--had been
turned upside down for him. It is true that this inversion had been
looked for, feared, for the last six months, but that fact did not
prevent the present phenomenon from being any the less unpleasant when
it actually occurred. It requires a peculiarly level head, not to say
a certain degree of something almost akin to callousness, to regard
matters from so totally different a point of view. It is a position to
which you cannot readily adjust yourself. At all events Father Maloney
found it one to which he could not readily adjust himself. It required
a supreme effort on his part merely to hang on, so to speak.

“Sure, and I ought to have been more prepared for it,” he muttered to
himself.

Getting out of his chair he went into the little hall, reached down his
hat, and took his stick from the stand. Anastasia saw him through the
open door of the kitchen. She came to it, a small dried-up woman.

“You’re not going out without your tea, Father,” she protested. “The
water in the kettle is boiling this very minute.”

“I’ll not be wanting any tea,” returned Father Maloney opening the
front door.

Anastasia went back into the kitchen, shaking her head sorrowfully at
the steaming kettle on the stove.

Father Maloney went slowly down the lane. It was powdered thickly with
white dust, since, for a fortnight past at least, the sky by day had
been blue and brazen, at night starlit and cloudless.

Two small girls passed him, belonging to his own flock. They dipped him
profound curtseys, glancing at him with bright bird-like eyes. He gave
but abstracted response to their salutation, which fact elicited from
them surprised and regretful comment as soon as he was out of earshot.
Though, for that matter, they might, at the moment, have reproached him
under his very nose, and gained no hearing.

Leaving the lane presently, he turned through a gate, and up the slope
of a grassy field. He had need of wider expanses than the hedged-in
lane afforded him.

He climbed slowly, pausing every now and then to take breath. At last
he gained the summit. Finding the sun distinctly warm, and being heated
by the ascent, he lowered himself slowly on to the short dry grass. So
busy was he with his own reflections, that he did not perceive a young
man lying in the shade of a blackberry bush some hundred or so paces
to his right. But it is very certain that the young man saw him; and,
seeing him, observed him intently.