XV

JOHN PLAYS THE SAMARITAN


THERE is no question but that Mrs. Trimwell could rise to an emergency
when it presented itself before her. In fifteen, perhaps no more than
ten, minutes from their entry, she had the drenched couple into dry
garments; the injured ankle was bound in soft bandages, tea was in
preparation.

But why, marvelled John, should her beneficent services have been
dispensed with a face as sour as a crab-apple? Why should her whole
mien have been as stiff, unbending, and unyielding as the proverbial
poker? The disapproval of her attitude was so marked as to be
impossible to ignore. John, in the position of host, felt some sort of
an apology necessary. Mrs. Trimwell departed, he stumbled one forth,
wondering, as he endeavoured at lightness, whether he were not, after
all, a bit of a fool for his pains; whether, by remarking on her
taciturn grimness, he were not emphasizing it more crudely.

“She doesn’t mean to be abrupt,” he concluded, holding his cigarette
case towards the stranger.

The man took a cigarette, and glanced at John.

“Oh, yes, I guess she does,” he remarked drily.

John looked at him. Obtuseness still had him in her clutch.

“She knows who I am,” said the man coolly, “and--well, I fancy most
folk round here are not predisposed in my favour. My name, by the way,
is David Delancey.”

John gasped, frankly gasped. He was amazed, dumbfounded. Running
through the amazement was, I fancy, something like annoyance; though
superseding it was a sense of the ludicrous, a realization of the
absurdity of the situation. And this brought him to something
perilously near a titter.

The man looked at him.

“Look here,” he said deliberately, though with a gleam of amusement in
his own eyes, “if you feel the same way about things, I’ll move on now.
I’ll make shift to hobble to the inn if you’ll lend me a couple of
sticks.”

John experienced a sudden sensation of shame. Perhaps it was by reason
of the quick interpretation of his unspoken thoughts, perhaps it was
something in the other’s steady grey eyes.

“You’ll do nothing of the kind,” he said quickly. And then he laughed.

“What’s funny?” demanded David.

“Oh, the whole blessed kaboodle,” returned John, still laughing softly.
“Here was I half an hour agone inveighing against you for all I was
worth, and now--well, the rôle of good Samaritan strikes me as a bit
humorous, that’s all.”

He held a lighted match towards his guest. David took it. After a
moment he spoke.

“Then you know them up at the Castle?”

“I do,” said John.

David glanced at him, then turned to a contemplation of his cigarette.

“I had a note from the old lady today,” he said ruminatively. “She has
asked me to dine on Thursday. Now, I call that sporting of her. I guess
I’d be more like sticking a knife into me than asking me to share her
salt. It’s the way she’s worded the note, too, that I’m stuck on. I’d
give a good many dollars to get my tongue and pen around words in that
fashion. I reckon I shall shake hands with her cordially.”

John eyed him curiously. His preconceived notions of hostility were
undergoing an extraordinary change, a change at once rapid, and, to
him, amazing, incomprehensible. I fancy he tried to rein them back,
to bring them to a standstill, while he took a calmer survey of the
situation, but, for all his endeavours, he found they had suddenly got
beyond his control.

“I wonder,” hazarded he, “if you’d mind my asking you something. What
gave you the first clue--the idea of starting out on this quest of
yours?”

“The clue?” David laughed. “It’s a bit of a yarn, I can tell you. You
want it? Sure?”

John nodded.

“Well,” quoth David, “you can call it luck, chance if you like. We’ve
always known we hailed as a family originally from England. That
knowledge has been handed down to us as a bit of tradition. I was born
in Philadelphia, and riz there, as they say in the States, till I was
going ten. Then my father made for Africa. There’s no need to enter
into the details of that move; they’re beside the mark. He took a small
farm in the Hex River Valley. He had a few old things that belonged
to his father and grandfather before him. They were stored away in a
chest. I used to look inside it when I was a youngster, and see coats,
and waistcoats, and neck stocks, and a fusty old book or two lying in
it. I never smell camphor without thinking of that chest.

“As I grew older, I left it alone, didn’t think about it. I guess my
father hadn’t bothered about it much more than I did. He died when I
was fifteen, and my mother ran the farm. She was a capable woman. I
helped her all I could, and there were men to do the work. But she
was boss till I was one and twenty. Then she turned it over to me to
run,--root, stock, and barrel. She was cute, though, the way she’d talk
things over with me, telling me all the time what was best to do, and
making me think that I had figured out the plans. Later on she left it
really to me, not just in the name of it. That was when I’d got the
right hang of things.

“Then she dropped suddenly out of all the man way of thinking, and just
sat knitting and smiling in the chimney corner, or letting me drive her
around in the buggy, with never a talk of business unless I began the
subject. It’s seven years ago that she died.” He stopped.

John was silent.

“I missed her,” went on David presently, “I missed her badly. The
place wasn’t the same. I went roving around trying to think she wasn’t
gone--but I’ll get maudlin if I go on with that. It wasn’t the bit I
set out to tell you, anyway. One afternoon I was in the lumber room
feeling lonesomer than ever. I don’t know what took me there if it
wasn’t just fate. Then I looked at that chest again. I opened it, and
the smell of camphor rushed out at me, making me think more than ever
of my mother. She was mad after camphor, putting it among everything to
keep away the moth.

“To get away from my thoughts I began pulling out the things in the
box, stuffy books, coats, waistcoats, and all. There was one coat,
a snuff-coloured one, that might have been worn in the time of the
Georges, I calculated. I sat looking at it, and wondering which of my
grandparents had worn it, and what kind of a man he was, and all the
things a fellow does think when he’s got his grandsire’s stuff before
him. After a bit I began going through the pockets. I found a tiny horn
snuff-box in one, and that set me off searching closer. I’d come to the
last pocket, when I found what gave me that clue you were asking about.
I found a letter.”

John looked up quickly.

“It was torn, and not over-easy to read,” went on David. “I’ve got it
here. You can read it if you like.”

He felt in his waistcoat pocket and pulled out his pocket-book. From it
he took a letter.

John took the yellow paper with its faded ink lines. As he touched it
he thought of the queer twists fate gives to the wheel of our life.
Less than a fortnight ago he had set eyes but momentarily upon one of
the Delancey family, and now here he was, thrown into their midst, made
participator even in their extraordinary history. It was, so mused
John, a bit of a marvel.

Here is the letter he read.

  “MY DEAR SON RICHARD:

  “I am about to set forth on the journey of which you know the purpose.
  If I am successful you will claim your birthright. Though I sold mine,
  after the manner of Esau, for a mess of red pottage, being forced
  thereto by harshness, yet I forfeited it for myself alone.

  “Your mother and brother do not know of the purpose of my journey to
  England. I think it well that it should remain known to us two alone
  till my return.

                                        “Your affectionate father,
                                               “HENRY DELANCEY.”

John slowly deciphered the faint lines. Silently he tendered the letter
again.

“It set me thinking,” said David reminiscently. “I was in that lumber
room for more than two hours reading that letter again and again. It
was clear that there was something belonging to us that we hadn’t got;
something that, as far as I could see, we had the right to have, though
I didn’t just know what it was. It struck me as queer that the Richard
who had had the letter hadn’t had a try for it. I know now that he died
of some kind of fever after his father had been gone six weeks. His
father didn’t return.” David’s voice was grim.

“I know,” said John.

“You’ve heard the story?” demanded David.

“That part of it. But go on.”

“Well,” continued David, “whether no one else knew of the letter, or
whether they thought that trying for their rights was a fool game, I
don’t know. There were times when I was after it that I thought it a
fool game myself. But I’d set out on it, and somehow I never find it
easy to turn back on any job I’ve set out on. If the others didn’t
think our birthright worth a bit of a fight I did. It took me five
years to trace up the family, but I got on the track, back to the
certificate of Henry Delancey’s marriage to Marie Courtoise, daughter
of a Brussels lace merchant. It was their grandson who first settled in
the States. With that I came to England, and followed up the clue here.
Then I understood exactly what I was after. They can’t deny that Henry
was the eldest son, and though they say he signed away the property
from himself and his heirs they haven’t got that document. This letter,
too,” he tapped it gently, “shows that though he may have signed it
away from himself, he did not touch the birthright of his heirs. See?”

“Yes, I see,” returned John a trifle drily.

Oh, he saw fast enough. Also, he saw pretty plainly that Henry Delancey
had been no fool in the game of swindling.

David looked at him.

“You’re on the side of the occupants of the Castle,” he said. It was
statement rather than query.

“I am,” said John coolly. His eyes held something of a challenge.

“Hum,” remarked David.

And then Mrs. Trimwell entered with the tea, and an aspect of rigid
disapproval.