XXXVII

CORIN TAKES A WALK


IT is, however, one thing to be a conspirator in intention, and quite
another to put your conspiracy into action. The opportunity perversely
refused to present itself, or, at any rate, to Elizabeth’s eyes it
refused to present itself, and that, after all, came to the same thing.
A dozen times at least she went over her prepared formula in her mind,
intending at each meeting to put it into words.

And there were meetings enough. You might have imagined that David
sought them; that he knew, by some uncanny instinct, the exact moments
when Elizabeth would approach the Green Man. Of course, too, there
were the meetings at breakfast, but to Elizabeth’s mind these barely
counted. It was not a subject to be served up with coffee and eggs and
bacon; the hour, also, was unpropitious. She was never glib of speech
in the early morning. But then every hour seemed unpropitious.

The whole difficulty of the matter lay in the fact that she was on the
outlook for an opportunity, that her formula was prepared. I defy any
one--at all events any one of Elizabeth’s truthful nature--to introduce
a pre-arranged subject casually and naturally. If you have ever tried
to do so yourself, you will hear the instant ring of falsity in your
words.

“Oh, by the way----”

And if you don’t begin in this fashion, how on earth are you going to
begin, I ask?

Every meeting which passed without the subject being broached, lent
further difficulty to its broaching. And the moment the opportunity
had gone by, Elizabeth would upbraid herself for cowardice, would
speak confidently to her heart of next time. And when next time came,
the little dumb devil would sit maliciously on guard before her lips
allowing every word to pass them but those she desired to speak.

The matter became almost farcical; it would have been farcical, but
that the days were slipping by.

“It’s positively absurd,” Elizabeth told herself, half-laughing,
half-angry.

But absurd or not, the little dumb devil was keeping close watch.

And here it was that Fate or Providence stepped in in a purely
unexpected manner. Doubtless you, according to your views, will give
the credit to whichever pleases you.

The intervention can hardly be termed direct. But then, that is
frequently the case. It is the side issues, which in themselves appear
of little or no importance, which have a momentous influence on the
graver and deeper questions of life.

And here I am minded to quote the words reflected upon by the
sunny-hearted Pippa.

  “Say not ‘a small event!’ Why ‘small’?
  Costs it more pain than this, ye call
  A ‘great event,’ should come to pass,
  Than that? Untwine me from the mass
  Of deeds which make up life, one deed
  Power shall fall short in or exceed!”

Yet, if you should reply boldly in refutation of these words, Here,
in my life, is one deed, one action at least, which stands paramount
above all others, I would answer, True; but what of the so-called
tiny influences, the so-called minute events which led to it? Can you
eliminate any one of them, and then say with certainty that, without
it, the result would have been the same? And if you can not, how can
you declare that the apparently tiny event was of less importance than
the one you call great?

However, let’s on to the matter in hand.