Elizabeth sat at one of the round tables by an open casement window.

It looked on to a grass terrace bordered by brilliant galadias. Beyond
the galadias was a tiny stream, rippling, amber-coloured, over rounded
stones. Beyond the stream was a grassy hill, sloping upwards to a
beech-wood. Beyond that again was the blue sky.

“It really is extraordinarily pleasant,” said Elizabeth.

And then she turned to her coffee pot. The coffee poured into a blue
and white cup, she was stirring it thoughtfully, when the door opened.

A man paused for the merest fraction of a second on the threshold. It
evidently came as a bit of a surprise to him to find the room already
occupied.

Elizabeth looked at the man. The man looked at Elizabeth.

She saw a big man in loose tweeds, shabby tweeds, which had seen much
service. She saw a square-faced man, with a mat of darkish red hair.

He saw a glossy-haired, brown-haired woman, a woman with a palely
bronzed skin, beneath which there was an underglow of red, a woman
with red lips finely moulded, with a square chin, with a delicately
chiselled nose, with steady grey eyes in which there was an under-note
of something akin to laughter. She wore a cream-coloured cotton dress.
A pink la France rose was tucked into the front of her gown.

David, used to the rapid assimilation of details, saw all this at a
glance. Then he crossed to the table in the other window. It had been
laid so that it faced hers, and fearing lest he should appear guilty of
an obtrusive staring, he gazed out of the window.

The arrival of his breakfast providing occupation for hands and eyes,
David turned to the table. A moment later he found that the sugar had
been forgotten.

Now, the Green Man is devoid of bells. In some ways it is distinctly
primitive. A brass knocker on the front door announces the arrival of
visitors. For the rest your own vocal cords are employed.

Ordinarily David would have gone to the door and shouted, but the
presence of Elizabeth causing some absurd little diffidence in his
mind, he sipped his coffee unsweetened. To a sweet-toothed man
non-sugared coffee is peculiarly unpalatable. He set down his cup with
a half-grimace, and glanced round the room. By good luck there might be
a sugar bowl on an unoccupied table. There was not.

Elizabeth had noticed the former hesitation; she had likewise noticed
the slight grimace, and the present unavailing glance around the room.
Two and two were put rapidly together in her mind. She gave her own
sugar bowl a slight push.

“Here is some sugar,” said she in her pleasant voice.

It was a most trifling incident. At the moment David merely said “Thank
you,” and availed himself of the proffered bowl. Twenty minutes later,
meeting in the garden by the stream, it gave a slight excuse for
speech. It gave Elizabeth the excuse for speech. You may be sure David
would never have ventured on it.

“What a dreamy spot!” said she, turning with a smile.

If you knew Elizabeth well, you would know that this was one of her
favourite adjectives. It summed up at once beauty, picturesqueness,
colour, and entire enjoyment of anything.

“It is good,” said David briefly.

Elizabeth’s eyes twinkled. She liked the speech. It was in this
fashion, so we are told, that God regarded His Creation,--that is
before Mother Eve, beguiled by the old Serpent, had upset matters. Yet
after all, in spite of his upsettings, there are times and places which
yet fill us with some faint sense of that pristine perfection.

Of course Elizabeth knew perfectly well who he was. That may well go
without saying. But, in spite of John having said that he was a decent
fellow, he wasn’t in the remotest degree like her mental conception of
him.

She had pictured him a big man--which he truly was, also a bluff man,
a jovial man, a talker, a bit loud-voiced, perhaps a trifle assertive,
at all events very confident of himself, and all these things he was
not. It had not taxed Elizabeth’s intuition very vastly to perceive
that, contrary to all her expectations, there was an extraordinary
diffidence about him. He wasn’t the least certain of himself, he wasn’t
the least jovial nor loud-voiced, while something in his eyes,--well,
I have mentioned his eyes before. Somehow Elizabeth’s mind swung to
her little dusty-haired, grey-eyed Patrick in Ireland. She saw him in
the throes of grappling with one of those world problems to which the
cleverest of us can find but a poor answer, heard a small voice say
wearily:

“Mummy, there is some things what is very difficult to understand.”

Of course it was an absurd comparison. What had this big man in common
with the perplexities of a childish mind? Nevertheless for a brief
space she _had_ thought of Patrick.

“You can almost,” said Elizabeth, “see the Good Folk come trooping down
that hill.

  “Up the airy mountain,
  Down the rushing glen,
  We daren’t go a-hunting
  For fear of little men;
  Wee folk, good folk
  Trooping altogether;
  Green jacket, red cap,
  And white owl’s feather!”

she quoted.

“I like that,” Said David, “what is it? Is there any more?”

Patrick had once said nearly these very words.

“It’s called,” said Elizabeth below her breath, “‘The Fairies,’ and it
is by William Allingham. Of course he ought never to have called it
that. The Little People hate that name. It’s a marvel, understanding as
much as he did, that he didn’t know. And there are five more verses.”

“Tell me,” said David.

“Oh!” laughed Elizabeth. But she went on.

  “Down along the rocky shore
    Some make their home,
  They live on crispy pancakes
    Of yellow tide foam;
  Some in the reeds
    Of the black mountain lake,
  With frogs for their watch dogs
    All night awake.

  “High on the hill-top
    The old King sits;
  He is now so old and grey
    He’s nigh lost his wits.
  With a bridge of white mist
    Columbkill he crosses,
  On his stately journeys
    From Slieveleague to Rosses;

  Or going up with music
    On cold starry nights
  To sup with the Queen
    Of the gay Northern Lights.

  “They stole little Bridget
    For seven years long;
  When she came down again
    Her friends were all gone.
  They took her lightly back
    Between the night and morrow,
  They thought she was fast asleep,
    But she was dead with sorrow.
  They have kept her ever since
    Deep within a lake,
  On a bed of flag-leaves
    Watching till she wake.

  “By the craggy hillside
    Through the mosses bare,
  They have planted thorn-trees
    For pleasure here and there.
  If any man so daring
    As dig them up for spite,
  He shall find their sharpest thorns
    In his bed at night.

  “Up the airy mountain
    Down the rushing glen,
  We daren’t go a-hunting
    For fear of little men;
  Wee folk, good folk.
    Trooping altogether;
  Green jacket, red cap,
    And white owl’s feather.”

“They don’t sound altogether friendly,” said David as she stopped.

“Oh,” she assured him, “they are only unfriendly towards those who
dislike and fear them. Those who fear them have to be constantly
propitiating them. There’s nothing they hate like fear, and therefore
they demand toll from cowards. For those who love the Little
People--you should hear my small son Patrick talk about them,” she
ended.

David looked a trifle bewildered.

“Do you truly believe--” he began.

She looked at him, half-laughing, half-serious.

“Honestly I don’t know,” she said. “I’m living in the depths of
Ireland, and all that kind of thing is infectious. Sometimes I laugh at
myself for giving it a moment’s thought, and the next I’m saying, there
must be _something_ in it. As for Patrick, you’d as easily shake his
belief in me as his belief in the Good People. After all, who knows? He
says _he_ does. But then children may have the key to a door of which
we know nothing, or, at the best, but fancy we have caught a glimpse.”

There was a little silence, broken only by the sound of running water.

“And now,” said Elizabeth, “I must unpack. I was too lazy last night.
My evening frock will be crushed out of all recognition.”

David pricked up his ears.

“I didn’t know people wore evening dress in the country,” said he.

Elizabeth laughed.

“John--my brother, Mr. Mortimer--does,” she replied. “I believe he’d
sooner go without his dinner than omit dressing for it.”

“Mr. Mortimer!” ejaculated David. “Do you mean that?” The gravity of
his tone seemed unwarranted by the triviality of the question.

“Mean it? Of course I do,” replied Elizabeth.

And then she saw his face.

“What on earth does it mean?” thought Elizabeth to herself.

“Glory be to God, you’ve done it now!” Father Maloney would have
exclaimed.

Already her presence was making itself felt.