XI

IN AN OLD CHURCH


THE next two days were _dies non_ as far as John was concerned, since
never a glimpse did he obtain of white-robed figure or attendant
knights, despite sun-baked rambles along dusty roads, deep lanes, and
over purple moorland.

He began to carp at that freakish sprite Chance. Matters might have
been so differently arranged by him. Taking them in hand at all, they
could have been conceived with so infinitely greater diplomacy. Where,
after all, had been the use of a mere goat? Why could not a bull--a
ferocious, snorting, pawing bull--have been brought on to the stage.
A bull must have entailed some further acknowledgment of the heroic
rescue. He might even have been slightly injured in the course of that
same rescue. In that case inquiries would have followed as a matter
of course, maybe even a visit of sympathetic and grateful condolence.
But a goat! a mere goat! With time and safety in which to consider the
situation, it had doubtless presented itself to the lady’s mind as one
of ridiculous insignificance. Her alarm was, probably, by now almost
laughable in her own eyes; and, in the face of this calm consideration,
John’s advance to the rescue would, therefore, have savoured somewhat
what of an intrusion. Verily had Chance been freakish and ill-advised.

“Could I but build me a willow cabin at her gates,” sighed John. “But
to sit on the sun-baked road would undoubtedly gain one the reputation
of a madman in these prosaic, self-contained days.”

Nevertheless he wandered past those same gates more times than I will
venture to record, and gazed ardently along the avenue of oaks and
beeches, but with no reward for his pains.

To bring solace to his soul, he bethought himself of Sunday. Sight of
her, at least, must be then permitted him; speech with her, though a
good devoutly to be desired, was not probable of consummation. Also,
with distinct and genuine success he interested himself in Corin’s
labours.

The work in the church progressed. Daily the plaster fell before that
remorseless chisel, daily new delights shone forth to the light of
day. The tracery of the east window was uncovered; showing brilliant
blue-green, with glowing ruby eyes. Great splashes of colour, bold yet
simple outline, transformed the dreary, hitherto plastered place into
a thing of mediæval beauty. The progress of time vanished with the
falling plaster. You found yourself back in the old centuries, the dead
years revitalized.

John sought the church most willingly when the workmen’s hours were
over, when silence lay upon the place, when the only sounds that
came to him were the falling of fragments from the walls, the echo
of Corin’s foot upon the plank as he shifted his position, and the
twittering and chirping of the birds from the bushes in the sunny
churchyard without.

At such time imagination ran riot.

He pictured the village folk coming up the path among the lengthening
shadows, saw them entering by the little Norman doorway, taking holy
water from the stoup, then kneeling before Christ in the Blessed
Sacrament. To him the church was no longer an empty shell, but a place
of crimson draperies, dark oak pews, scattered shrines; with here and
there a kneeling figure; and above all, superseding all, the quiet
strength and peace of the Hidden Presence.

Presently he began to individualize his village folk. There was a
fair-haired girl who came to pray for her lover, to commend him
specially to Our Lord and St. Joseph, since he--her man--was a
carpenter. There was a dark-eyed woman who came to plead for the life
of her child lying sick of a fever; there was a young man who came
to dedicate his youth and strength to God; and there was an old, old
woman, who, having no living to pray for, came daily to pray for the
holy dead. The present had vanished, merged and absorbed in the past.
Despite all that has been lost, removed, abandoned, despite the denial
of entry to that Gracious Presence, does there not still linger in
these old churches some faint sweet breath, some hidden fragrance of
that which once has been?

You would never have imagined, seeing John sitting there in his most
immaculate suit of grey flannels, that such thoughts as these were
passing through his mind. But I have observed, and you may take my
observation for what it is worth, that to attempt to guess at the
minds of one’s fellow humans by their clothes and their superficial
appearance, is a distinctly dangerous task. To do so must inevitably
result in a series of vast surprises when the truth becomes known.

To my thinking it would be not unlike marching into some great clothing
emporium to examine coats. There they hang,--tweed coats, frieze coats,
fur coats, silk coats, velvet coats, satin coats, tinsel coats, even
second-hand and shop-worn coats. You turn them to look at the linings.
Now, here the shock begins. Where you expected to find warm linings you
find calico; where good material, rags; where flimsy useless linings,
cloth of gold and soft fur; where soiled linings, the most exquisite
satins. Therefore, if you desire to make a guess at the substance of
these coats, without actual knowledge of their linings, take them from
their peg and weigh them. A discrepancy between their weight and your
expectation of it may lead you nearer a fair guess at the lining.

I’ll be bound, that, on mere superficial observation, you’d have taken
our John for a mere summer coat of little substance and no weight;
but assuredly you’d find your mistake when you had examined a bit
closer. It is an idiosyncrasy of human nature, perhaps intentional
on the part of the individual, perhaps unavoidable, that the vast
majority invariably deceives the casual observer. No doubt this lends
interest to our acquaintanceships and friendships; often, too, lends
disappointment; and occasionally unexpected pleasure; but interest
certainly.

Here, however, I have advanced somewhat with John’s meditations,
carried them beyond those first days of which I began to speak.
Therefore to return on our traces.

That first Saturday afternoon John, sitting on an overturned
wheelbarrow, began something of those thoughts of which I have given
you the greater elaboration. I don’t believe for a moment that he knew
that he was thinking them. There’s the curious joy of such thoughts.
There is no conscious effort on your part. You don’t map out a route
in your mind resolving your progress along it, a conscientious
observance of the milestones you may pass. Insensibly you drift into
peaceful glades, silent and very sweet. Their atmosphere steals upon
you, holding your spirit in a breathless charm. Happiness, a strange
wonderful happiness, falls upon you. You accept it in its entirety,
taking, at the moment, no note of details. Later, returning to more
material consciousness and surroundings, the details present themselves
to your memory, and you then realize your awareness of them, even while
they were submerged in the whole.