XXXI

IN THE EARLY MORNING


IF, as I remarked at the beginning of a preceding chapter, John thought
it a funny world, it is very certain that David would have fully
endorsed his opinion; and, further, he would have considered himself
the queerest person in it.

Now, this was purely owing to the fact that he had suddenly found
himself a stranger to himself. It was, in a manner, as if he had lived
in blindness with a man for years, having, perhaps, without fully
recognizing the fact, some mental conception of him. Then, on being
miraculously restored to sight, he had discovered that the reality was
totally at variance with that same mental conception.

The recovery of sight had come gradually. It had not been an
instantaneous miracle. At the first he thought, doubtless, if he
considered the fact at all, and he was probably only partially aware
of it, that the variance between the reality and what his partially
restored sight beheld, was due to his own faulty vision. Now, with
clear sight restored, he beheld a complete stranger, and it left him
bewildered. He didn’t know the man at all. He didn’t even recognize his
speech. It is small wonder that he was bewildered; it is small wonder
that he spent solitary hours in a futile attempt to reconstruct his
preconceived notions of the man.

I believe that the moment when David got a first blurred glimpse of
this stranger, was in Father Maloney’s odd little parlour. He had had
another glimpse of him at the Castle; and since then, little by little,
the glimpses had resolved themselves into full vision. And through it
all, with it all, was a queer sense of vibratory forces at work.

It was in the parlour, also, that the first vibration had struck upon
him--a quite definite vibration, though inexplicable. It had rung
clearly for a brief space, gradually growing fainter, till he wondered
if it had indeed rung, or was merely imagination on his part. It had
been repeated at the Castle, and had left no doubt in his mind. Since
then it had been renewed at intervals, ringing each time longer and
louder. I can best describe it as some kind of mental telephone call,
though he was, at present, at a complete loss as to the message waiting
to be delivered.

“The fact is, David P. Delancey,” he remarked more than once, “that
somehow your moorings have been cut, and the Lord only knows where you
are drifting.”