His heart beat high as he walked up the hill. Of course he was doing
the right and obvious thing. It would be absurd to wait till next week
to pay the visit. The day after tomorrow! How could such a delay be
contemplated? It would have been impossible, unthinkable.

The eighth meeting! And surely there must follow the ninth and the
tenth, and heaven alone knew how many more. And which, _which_, WHICH
would be The Meeting? Of course it was absolutely absurd to surmise
on this point. It was impossible to fix the moment beforehand. To
come, as John would have it to come, it must be almost inspirational,
heaven-sent. It couldn’t be arranged, planned. It couldn’t be
calculated over, preconceived. But--and here John’s spirits went down
to zero with a sudden run--would it ever come? Wasn’t he a presumptuous
ass even to dream of such a moment as possible? or--granting the
moment--to dream of its fruition? Wouldn’t it be nipped in the bud
instantly? frozen to a mere shrivelled atom of a miserable moment? John
shivered at the thought. Then consolation took him kindly by the hand.
At all events here was the eighth meeting, with the moment not yet even
in bud. Who could tell as to that budding?

And so he turned into the avenue.

He passed under the oaks and copper beeches, the roadway now dappled
with gold among shadows, as the sunlight penetrated the branches
overhead. To the right, in the distance, were undulating stretches of
moorland. He fancied he could descry the silver-stemmed birch he had
seen on his first morning’s walk. Before him he had a view of smooth
green lawns, of brilliant flowerbeds, backgrounded by the old grey
Castle itself. To the left the parkland sloped gently upwards to a wood
of beeches,--a serene, cool, silent place, a veritable haunt of dryads.

Between the avenue and the wood was a great oak tree, stretching wide
branches above the rough grass. Rumour had it that here was the scene
of that old-time tragedy. Though unknowing of this rumour, John yet
felt something almost sinister about the twisted, gnarled branches,
and massive trunk of the great tree. There was a hint of secrecy about
it, the dumb knowledge of some tragedy. Almost involuntarily he turned
across the grass towards it.

There was no question as to its great age. For generations it must have
stood there, weathering storm and sunshine. Some seven feet or so from
the ground there was a hole in the trunk, large enough to admit of the
passage of a man’s head. Scanning the hole, John noticed a rusty nail
at one side. He wondered, idly enough, why it had been placed there.
From the hole, he glanced up at the branches. Truly there was something
almost sinister in the great limbs. They were distorted, twisted, as if
in agony. Again he had the unreasoning sensation of secrecy. It was an
extraordinary sensation, an absurd sensation.

He could fancy the spirit of the tree striving to find expression in
speech. There was a curious feeling that somewhere, just beyond, in
the spirit world, perhaps, there was the key to some riddle. It was an
almost impalpable feeling; he barely realized it; only somewhere, in
his deepest inner consciousness, it stirred slightly.

Below the tree was a small mound. Rumour also had it that here Gelert,
the wolf-hound, faithful as his ancient namesake, was buried. Again,
John had had no hint of this rumour. But he looked at the mound with
curiosity. Then, suddenly, he threw off the slight oppression that was
upon him, retraced his steps to the avenue.

Arrived at the big door, John pulled the bell, a twisted iron thing
whose voice sounded faintly in some remote region. The door was opened,
and John saw into the hall, dark and shadowed. He had a glimpse of
bowls of roses, of a big straw hat lying on a table, green chiffon
around the crown. A pair of long crinkled gloves lay near it. So, for
an instant, John stood, his foot ready to cross the threshold.

“Her ladyship is not at home.” The butler’s bland voice fell like a
douche of cold water on John’s heart.

Now, I don’t know whether John’s face fell in proportion to his
heart, and the butler, more human than the majority of butlers, saw
the falling, or whether his next statement came in the mere ordinary
routine of matters. Anyhow,

“But Miss Delancey is at home, and her ladyship will return shortly,”
followed closely on the former speech.

John’s heart leaped to at least ten degrees above the point from which
it had fallen. The speech had not even come as a query regarding his
desire to enter, it had come as simple statement of fact.

John stepped across the threshold.