X

SEARCHING


When Roy Manley turned his horse up the mountain, he determined to
find that spring, and find it quick. Haste was imperative, for Mr.
Manley and the others had no means of knowing where he and Teddy
were. They might conclude the two boys had taken the left trail, but
certainly if Roy and Teddy did not join them soon, there would be
cause for worry. Chasing rustlers is not a pastime, it is dangerous
work.

Roy realized the state of mind his father would be in, and just
touched the spurs to the pony’s side. Looking at the sun, the boy
decided that it must be nearly four o’clock.

Roy ran his hand over the pony’s flank.

“Not sweating much, are you?” he said. “Guess you need water, all
right. Chances are you haven’t had any since early this morning.”

He halted the horse and peered closely at the ground.

“Seems softer here. Hold still now, bronc, and I’ll look.”

He threw the reins over the pony’s neck and dismounted. Leading the
horse, he made for a small clump of bushes.

“Sure looks like there ought to be a spring around here,” he
declared. “I sort of remember this place. I’ll bet this is where
Teddy and I stopped last year on our way to Molten to look at those
cattle dad was thinking of buying.”

Parting the bushes, he gazed within the space they enclosed.

“Yay, boy! Water! Go to it, old fellow! Easy now. Don’t bust your
boiler.”

Removing his hat, he scooped himself up a drink. He then stood
watching the pony drink the cool water. When the animal was
satisfied, which was not until he had again dipped his nose into the
spring, the boy patted him affectionately.

“Some good, I’ll tell a maverick!” Roy exclaimed, with a sigh of
satisfaction as he wiped his lips on the back of his hand. “Come on
now, bronc! We have got to tell Teddy!”

He replaced his hat, mounted, and again started down the mountain
toward the place he had agreed to meet his brother. Arriving there,
he cupped his hands to his mouth and let out a yell.

“Yay-y-y-y, Teddy! Yay-y-y!”

He paused for an answer, but none came.

Again he called.

“Yo-o-o-o, Ted! Come here! I found it!”

He strained his ears for a reply, but the echo of his cry was the
only answer.

“That’s funny,” he said, straightening in the saddle. A perplexed
frown came to his face. “Teddy oughtn’t to be out of earshot. He
said ten minutes, and it’s easily that, and more!”

Rising in his stirrups, Roy peered through the trees.

“I’m going to ride after him,” he declared after a further period of
waiting. “I don’t like this a little bit! When Teddy says ten
minutes, he means just that, and no longer. It’s a cinch he wouldn’t
delay when he knows we’ve got to get back to dad in a hurry.”

He was just about to guide his horse down the mountain when the
sound of men’s voices caused him to turn swiftly in his saddle. An
idea came to him that these might be the rustlers, so he jumped his
horse off the trail and into the bushes at the side. The next moment
he gave a yell and swung the pony back on the path. Riding toward
him were his father, Nick Looker, Pop Burns, and Gus Tripp.

“Roy!” Mr. Manley called. He spurred his bronco forward. “Where’ve
you been, son? We’ve been worried about you!”

“It’s a long story,” Roy answered, forcing his mount toward his
father, adding: “Say, have you seen Teddy?”

“Teddy? Why, no! I thought he was with you.”

“He was, up to half an hour ago. Then we separated, trying to find a
spring. He hasn’t come back yet.”

A look of alarm shadowed Mr. Manley’s face. He turned to the others.

“You didn’t see Teddy, did you, anybody?” he asked.

“Not me, boss,” Nick Looker answered. “We’ve been with you all the
time except when Pop and I fell behind, a ways back.”

“I ain’t seen him,” Gus declared. “Pop, ain’t neither, I know. Have
you, Pop?”

“Nope! Snakes! You don’t mean to tell me he’s lost? I can’t believe
that. Teddy wouldn’t get lost in these hills. He knows ’em like a
book.”

“I don’t think he’s lost, either,” Roy said in a troubled tone. “I
don’t know what to think. He and I caught sight of the rustlers on
our broncs, Dad, and--”

“You saw the galoots?” Pop burst out excitedly. “Where, Roy? How
long ago? Let’s go after ’em! Snakes!”

“Go easy,” Gus drawled. “Let Roy tell it. Go ahead, Roy.”

Roy “went ahead” and told his story, ending with the words:

“I haven’t seen Teddy since. That’s all!”

“That’s a-plenty,” Mr. Manley declared. “Where do you suppose Teddy
went, Roy? Oughtn’t he to be back by now?”

“He should,” Roy replied. “As I told you, he said ten minutes.
Golly, I don’t know where he is, Dad! I’m worried. Something must
have happened to him.”

“You don’t _know_ that,” Nick Looker broke in. “Don’t cross no
bridges till you come to ’em. Teddy’s all right!”

“I hope so,” Mr. Manley replied moodily. “But I never knew Teddy to
stay away when he said he’d be back unless he couldn’t come. Well,
let’s not waste time here. We must find him.”

“Want to spread out, boss?” Pop asked. “Better that way, hey?”

“Right!” Mr. Manley answered shortly. “Roy, you come with me. Pop,
you and Gus ride to the left. Nick can take the right. Roy and I
will go straight down.”

The men and the boy started on their search. Mr. Manley and Roy took
the very same path over which Teddy had traveled, though, of course,
they did not know this.

“Mighty funny where he could have gone,” Roy remarked. “Jimminy! I
hope nothing happened to him. But it sure looks queer!”

“Take Nick’s advice,” his father answered. “Teddy may be riding
around looking for us.” But Roy stole a quick glance at his father’s
face and saw the lines of worry.

The ranchman knew what it meant to be lost in these hills with night
coming on. Then there was the added danger that Teddy had met the
horse-thieves. If one of them was really Billy Froud, Mr. Manley had
visions of Teddy riding straight at him and pulling him off Flash.
Somehow, Mr. Manley knew that Froud would be riding Flash if,
indeed, he was one of the rustlers.

The rancher thought of the other two thieves as leveling their guns
at Teddy. Drawing his hand across his forehead in a quick gesture,
the ranchman forced his horse on.

Suddenly Roy gave a cry. He pointed to something ahead.

“There’s Teddy’s horse!” he exclaimed. “That’s Teddy’s horse, Dad!
But he isn’t on him! Ted must be around here somewhere! Hey-y-y
Teddy! Yo-o-o!”

Father and son strained their ears for an answer. Silence! Then,
echoing among the hills like the single beat of a taut drum, came
the sound of a shot. With startled eyes the two looked at each
other.