XXII

THE STORM


“Going to start now, Dad?” Teddy asked.

“Yes--right away! Can’t afford to lose any more time. The bunch from
8 X 8 is due any minute now, an’ we’re goin’ to start from here.
We’ll work in shifts--one gang take the trail tonight, and another
in the mornin’. In that way we’ll ride the rustlers down before they
have a chance to cache the cattle. We want to prevent those thieves
from driving the Durhams to a hiding place. If we keep on the jump,
we may be able to get ’em before they make their way to a retreat.”

Mr. Manley hurried toward the corral. The two boys dismounted and
led their horses to the hitching rail, thinking they might need them
soon.

“A hundred head of Durhams!” Roy mused. “Those fellows sure work
fast! Mighty funny they didn’t start something with the X Bar X
herd.”

“Guess they thought that the 8 X 8 outfit would be easier to raid.
It looks like it was, too. What kind of men has Pete Ball got riding
his cattle to let rustlers raid their herd twice in a month?”

“Well, as I said before, that gang is pretty clever. They’re no
amateurs at the game, and I’ll bet they’ve got half the men in
Eagles in league with them, especially those who hang around
Rimor’s. Say, do you suppose dad wants us to come with him?”

“Wait here while I ask him.”

Teddy walked rapidly toward his father. It was in his mind to tell
his parent of the occurrence at Harver’s Gully, but when he thought
it over he realized that it would be but a slender clue and might
lead the pursuers astray. Looking back, he could not be absolutely
sure that that man was Gilly Froud, however much he appeared to be.

“No, son, I want you an’ Roy to stay around here,” Mr. Manley
replied in answer to Teddy’s question. “Mother is a bit worried, and
she’ll feel a lot safer if you two are here. You an’ Roy can go out
with the morning bunch--that is, if we don’t spot the rustlers
before that. Belle Ada has to get to the 8 X 8 in the morning, too,
as she promised Nell and Ethel she’d come over. Myself, I’d rather
she’d wait a few days, but she wants to go, so I’ll let her. You and
Roy can take her over, can’t you? You can join in the chase later.”

“Sure, Dad, if you say so. We’ll do whatever seems best to you.”

Having communicated to Roy his father’s advice, Teddy put the two
ponies away for the night. He really wanted to ride with the rest,
but he knew it would be better for him to stay at home until his
father returned.

Six men from Peter Ball’s place arrived just before supper, and
after a hurried meal, the chase for the horse thieves started.

This time there was none of the wild rushing of the former pursuit.
The men clucked quietly to their horses, and, led by Mr. Manley,
they rode out of the yard. They were on a grim business, and each
felt the responsibility of his position. They were banded together
to wipe out a gang of rustlers. A stern task was ahead of them, and
they simply proceeded toward it.

With most of the punchers riding away with Mr. Manley, the ranch
yard of the X Bar X was now a quiet spot. For some minutes Roy and
Teddy stood in silence, watching the dust settle. The sky was
overcast, and the usual glory of the western sunset was missing. A
drizzle of rain was falling, and, turning about, Teddy and Roy
entered the ranch house, to eat in more leisurely manner than those
who had gone on the chase.

Supper was rather a dreary meal. Try as she would, Mrs. Manley could
not altogether conceal her anxiety for the safety of her husband.

Teddy reached across the table and laid his hand over his mother’s.

“Cheer up, Mom,” he said, with a smile. “Dad’s all right. You’ll see
him come rushing in here in the morning, saying that they caught the
rustlers and is there any coffee and beans left.”

“Oh, I hope so,” Mrs. Manley replied, smiling slightly. “It is
foolish of me to worry, and I won’t do it any more. Certainly your
father can take care of himself. Belle, dear, do be careful of that
pitcher! Roy, pour your sister some milk. I know she’ll spill it,
reaching in that fashion.”

There were those at the X Bar X who did not sleep much that night.
Mr. Manley might return at any time and tell of success--or failure.
Many times Teddy and Roy leaped up from their beds, where they were
lying fully dressed, and ran to the window, only to find that the
noise they had heard was the wind blowing a shingle across the yard
or a horse in the corral rubbing against the rails. The drizzle
stopped, though the sky remained cloudy and a cold wind blew.

At one o’clock the boys heard a tapping on their door. Opening it
quickly, they found their mother standing there.

“I wondered if you were asleep,” she said, with a little smile.
“Now, this won’t do at all. We can’t have you wasting your strength,
you know. Come down to the kitchen with me, and I’ll make some
cocoa. Then you’re going to take off your things and get in
bed--even if I have to tuck you in as I used to, not so long ago. In
the morning you have to take Belle over to the 8 X 8, and, after
that, there’ll be plenty of work to do. So you need all the rest you
can get. Come now, we’ll get the cocoa made, then it’s to bed with
both of you!”

“But don’t you want us to wait up for dad, Mother?”

“No, Roy. When he comes I’ll call you. You must get your sleep. My,
listen to that wind!”

After a warming drink, Teddy and Roy, in obedience to their mother’s
laughing orders, hopped into bed. Both declared that they wouldn’t
sleep a wink, but, somehow, they could not keep their eyes open, and
two o’clock found them deep in slumber. Mrs. Manley it was who
watched at the window for the returning horsemen, her hands clasped
tightly.

The day was three hours old when Teddy and Roy opened their eyes.
Roy was the first one out of bed, and, practically throwing his
clothes on, he made for the door. Teddy was a close second, and they
descended the stairs together.

Their mother was waiting in the dining room. She put her finger to
her lips and said in a low voice:

“Don’t make too much noise, boys. Your father is asleep right above.
He came in at five o’clock.”

“Did he--did he--” Teddy began tensely.

Mrs. Manley shook her head.

“No luck, boys. He wants you to take Belle over to Peter Ball’s
place as soon as you can and to hurry back. I wish she would wait
until this business is over. Still, I won’t be foolish and start to
worry. She is so eager to visit Nell and Ethel that I haven’t the
heart to say she can’t. There is not a great deal of opportunity for
social life out here. Anyway, I want her to become well acquainted
with the two girls, for she may go to New York next winter and
she’ll be happier if she has friends there. When do you want to
start?”

“As soon as Belle can, Mother,” Boy answered. “Dad is all right,
then?”

“Just tired. He could hardly keep his eyes open, poor man. And he’s
doing all this to help a friend, too!”

“Dad would do more for a friend than he would for himself,” Roy said
softly. “Golly, I hope we catch those rustlers! Boy, how I hope it!
Teddy, can’t you feel old Flash under you once more? And Star! Come
on, Ted, let’s hurry so we can get back soon! Mom, how soon before
Belle will be ready?”

Mrs. Manley smiled at her son. It was like him to think more of
getting his horse back than of capturing the rustlers--the mother
knew the great affection that existed between Roy and Star and
between Teddy and Flash. Yet, when she thought of the dangers of the
chase, her face sobered. Still she did not forbid them to go. She
knew that her boys must learn to be men.

The two brothers and their sister were soon ready to start.
Cautioning them to be careful, Mrs. Manley kissed them good-bye.
They were going on horse back, Belle having her own favorite pony
which she could not think of leaving behind.

As they set out, Teddy looked up at the sky.

“More rain,” he remarked thoughtfully. “Makes trailing that much
harder. Belle, were you up when dad came in?”

“No. But I heard him. He said the men never got a glimpse of the
thieves. Then he said something about Harver’s Gully, but I didn’t
quite catch that.”

“He did?” Roy asked excitedly. “What was it, Belle? Think!”

“I didn’t hear it all, Roy, because he shut the door just then.”

“I wonder if they rode over that way!” Teddy exclaimed. “Roy, the
more I think of that man we saw, the more I’m sure it was Froud!”

“You saw Gilly Froud?” Belle asked, her eyes wide.

“We weren’t sure,” Teddy said quickly. Then he changed the subject
and suggested that they hurry, as the clouds were getting heavier.

They reached the 8 X 8 after a long ride, finding it in much the
same condition as their own ranch. That is, most of the punchers
were on the range, trying to get track of their stolen cattle. Bug
Eye Wilson remained, “to keep the cook company,” as he said, much as
he had wanted to ride with the rest. His time would come later
unless the rustlers were caught soon.

There was an attitude of quiet determination about the men on the 8
X 8. Teddy noticed that the punchers who remained were talking in
low tones and with none of their accustomed banter.

“They’re all business,” Roy remarked to Teddy. “If those rustlers
get away this time they’re pretty clever. This last trick they
pulled was one too many. They’ve got the whole country on their
necks now.”

Needless to say, Nell and Ethel were delighted to see Belle, and
also her brothers. But Roy and Teddy could scarcely stay long enough
to say “hello.” They were anxious to get back, see their father, and
join in the chase.

The sky was blacker than ever when they turned and started for home.
The wind had increased in violence, and the boys bent low in their
saddles as they rode.

Three miles out Roy gave a yell.

“Here she comes! She’s goin’ to be a pip, too! Wow!”

With a sullen roar the storm struck. The rain fell in torrents and
the wind whipped the boys’ faces stingingly.

“We’ve got to find shelter!” Teddy shouted. “Can’t ride in this! The
broncs will fall, sure, and maybe break a leg! Then we’ll be out of
luck!”

Bracing themselves against the furious blasts, the boys galloped on,
searching for some sort of protection. The lightning was flashing
almost continually, so they wisely kept out of the vicinity of large
trees.

Suddenly Teddy gave a shout.

“There’s something ahead! Looks like a house! Let’s head for that!”

The boys forced their broncos onward. Through the dashing rain they
could see the outlines of a shack.